December 7, 1896

To the Congress of the United States:

As representatives of the people in the legislative branch of their
Government, you have assembled at a time when the strength and
excellence of our free institutions and the fitness of our citizens to
enjoy popular rule have been again made manifest. A political contest
involving momentous consequences, fraught with feverish apprehension,
and creating aggressiveness so intense as to approach bitterness and
passion has been waged throughout our land and determined by the decree
of free and independent suffrage without disturbance of our
tranquillity or the least sign of weakness in our national structure.

When we consider these incidents and contemplate the peaceful obedience
and manly submission which have succeeded a heated clash of political
opinions, we discover abundant evidence of a determination on the part
of our countrymen to abide by every verdict of the popular will and to
be controlled at all times by an abiding faith in the agencies
established for the direction of the affairs of their Government.

Thus our people exhibit a patriotic disposition which entitles them to
demand of those who undertake to make and execute their laws such
faithful and unselfish service in their behalf as can only be prompted
by a serious appreciation of the trust and confidence which the
acceptance of public duty invites.

In obedience to a constitutional requirement I herein submit to the
Congress certain information concerning national affairs, with the
suggestion of such legislation as in my judgment is necessary and
expedient. To secure brevity and avoid tiresome narration I shall omit
many details concerning matters within Federal control which, though by
no means unimportant, are more profitably discussed in departmental
reports. I shall also further curtail this communication by omitting a
minute recital of many minor incidents connected with our foreign
relations which have heretofore found a place in Executive messages,
but are now contained in a report of the Secretary of State, which is
herewith submitted.

At the outset of a reference to the more important matters affecting
our relations with foreign powers it would afford me satisfaction if I
could assure the Congress that the disturbed condition in Asiatic
Turkey had during the past year assumed a less hideous and bloody
aspect and that, either as a consequence of the awakening of the
Turkish Government to the demands of humane civilization or as the
result of decisive action on the part of the great nations having the
right by treaty to interfere for the protection of those exposed to the
rage of mad bigotry and cruel fanaticism, the shocking features of the
situation had been mitigated. Instead, however, of welcoming a softened
disposition or protective intervention, we have been afflicted by
continued and not unfrequent reports of the wanton destruction of homes
and the bloody butchery of men, women, and children, made martyrs to
their profession of Christian faith.

While none of our citizens in Turkey have thus far been killed or
wounded, though often in the midst of dreadful scenes of danger, their
safety in the future is by no means assured. Our Government at home and
our minister at Constantinople have left nothing undone to protect our
missionaries in Ottoman territory, who constitute nearly all the
individuals residing there who have a right to claim our protection on
the score of American citizenship. Our efforts in this direction will
not be relaxed; but the deep feeling and sympathy that have been
aroused among our people ought not to so far blind their reason and
judgment as to lead them to demand impossible things. The outbreaks of
the blind fury which lead to murder and pillage in Turkey occur
suddenly and without notice, and an attempt on our part to force such a
hostile presence there as might be effective for prevention or
protection would not only be resisted by the Ottoman Government, but
would be regarded as an interruption of their plans by the great
nations who assert their exclusive right to intervene in their own time
and method for the security of life and property in Turkey.

Several naval vessels are stationed in the Mediterranean as a measure
of caution and to furnish all possible relief and refuge in case of
emergency.

We have made claims against the Turkish Government for the pillage and
destruction of missionary property at Harpoot and Marash during
uprisings at those places. Thus far the validity of these demands has
not been admitted, though our minister, prior to such outrages and in
anticipation of danger, demanded protection for the persons and
property of our missionary citizens in the localities mentioned and
notwithstanding that strong evidence exists of actual complicity of
Turkish soldiers in the work of destruction and robbery.

The facts as they now appear do not permit us to doubt the justice of
these claims, and nothing will be omitted to bring about their prompt
settlement.

A number of Armenian refugees having arrived at our ports, an order has
lately been obtained from the Turkish Government permitting the wives
and children of such refugees to join them here. It is hoped that
hereafter no obstacle will be interposed to prevent the escape of all
those who seek to avoid the perils which threaten them in Turkish
dominions.

Our recently appointed consul to Erzerum is at his post and discharging
the duties of his office, though for some unaccountable reason his
formal exequatur from the Sultan has not been issued.

I do not believe that the present somber prospect in Turkey will be
long permitted to offend the sight of Christendom. It so mars the
humane and enlightened civilization that belongs to the close of the
nineteenth century that it seems hardly possible that the earnest
demand of good people throughout the Christian world for its corrective
treatment will remain unanswered.

The insurrection in Cuba still continues with all its perplexities. It
is difficult to perceive that any progress has thus far been made
toward the pacification of the island or that the situation of affairs
as depicted in my last annual message has in the least improved. If
Spain still holds Havana and the seaports and all the considerable
towns, the insurgents still roam at will over at least two-thirds of
the inland country. If the determination of Spain to put down the
insurrection seems but to strengthen with the lapse of time and is
evinced by her unhesitating devotion of largely increased military and
naval forces to the task, there is much reason to believe that the
insurgents have gained in point of numbers and character and resources
and are none the less inflexible in their resolve not to succumb
without practically securing the great objects for which they took up
arms. If Spain has not yet reestablished her authority, neither have
the insurgents yet made good their title to be regarded as an
independent state. Indeed, as the contest has gone on the pretense that
civil government exists on the island, except so far as Spain is able
to maintain it, has been practically abandoned. Spain does keep on foot
such a government, more or less imperfectly, in the large towns and
their immediate suburbs; but that exception being made, the entire
country is either given over to anarchy or is subject to the military
occupation of one or the other party. It is reported, indeed, on
reliable authority that at the demand of the commander in chief of the
insurgent army the putative Cuban government has now given up all
attempt to exercise its functions, leaving that government confessedly
(what there is the best reason for supposing it always to have been in
fact) a government merely on paper.

Were the Spanish armies able to meet their antagonists in the open or
in pitched battle, prompt and decisive results might be looked for, and
the immense superiority of the Spanish forces in numbers, discipline,
and equipment could hardly fail to tell greatly to their advantage. But
they are called upon to face a foe that shuns general engagements, that
can choose and does choose its own ground, that from the nature of the
country is visible or invisible at pleasure, and that fights only from
ambuscade and when all the advantages of position and numbers are on
its side. In a country where all that is indispensable to life in the
way of food, clothing, and shelter is so easily obtainable, especially
by those born and bred on the soil, it is obvious that there is hardly
a limit to the time during which hostilities of this sort may be
prolonged. Meanwhile, as in all cases of protracted civil strife, the
passions of the combatants grow more and more inflamed and excesses on
both sides become more frequent and more deplorable. They are also
participated in by bands of marauders, who, now in the name of one
party and now in the name of the other, as may best suit the occasion,
harry the country at will and plunder its wretched inhabitants for
their own advantage. Such a condition of things would inevitably entail
immense destruction of property, even if it were the policy of both
parties to prevent it as far as practicable; but while such seemed to
be the original policy of the Spanish Government, it has now apparently
abandoned it and is acting upon the same theory as the insurgents,
namely, that the exigencies of the contest require the wholesale
annihilation of property that it may not prove of use and advantage to
the enemy.

It is to the same end that, in pursuance of general orders, Spanish
garrisons are now being withdrawn from plantations and the rural
population required to concentrate itself in the towns. The sure result
would seem to be that the industrial value of the island is fast
diminishing and that unless there is a speedy and radical change in
existing conditions it will soon disappear altogether. That value
consists very largely, of course, in its capacity to produce sugar--a
capacity already much reduced by the interruptions to tillage which
have taken place during the last two years. It is reliably asserted
that should these interruptions continue during the current year, and
practically extend, as is now threatened, to the entire sugar-producing
territory of the island, so much time and so much money will be
required to restore the land to its normal productiveness that it is
extremely doubtful if capital can be induced to even make the attempt.

The spectacle of the utter ruin of an adjoining country, by nature one
of the most fertile and charming on the globe, would engage the serious
attention of the Government and people of the United States in any
circumstances. In point of fact, they have a concern with it which is
by no means of a wholly sentimental or philanthropic character. It lies
so near to us as to be hardly separated from our territory. Our actual
pecuniary interest in it is second only to that of the people and
Government of Spain. It is reasonably estimated that at least from
$30,000,000 to $50,000,000 of American capital are invested in
plantations and in railroad, mining, and other business enterprises on
the island. The volume of trade between the United States and Cuba,
which in 1889 amounted to about $64,000,000, rose in 1893 to about
$103,000,000, and in 1894, the year before the present insurrection
broke out, amounted to nearly $96,000,000. Besides this large pecuniary
stake in the fortunes of Cuba, the United States finds itself
inextricably involved in the present contest in other ways, both
vexatious and costly.

Many Cubans reside in this country, and indirectly promote the
insurrection through the press, by public meetings, by the purchase and
shipment of arms, by the raising of funds, and by other means which the
spirit of our institutions and the tenor of our laws do not permit to
be made the subject of criminal prosecutions. Some of them, though
Cubans at heart and in all their feelings and interests, have taken out
papers as naturalized citizens of the United States--a proceeding
resorted to with a view to possible protection by this Government, and
not unnaturally regarded with much indignation by the country of their
origin. The insurgents are undoubtedly encouraged and supported by the
widespread sympathy the people of this country always and instinctively
feel for every struggle for better and freer government, and which, in
the case of the more adventurous and restless elements of our
population, leads in only too many instances to active and personal
participation in the contest. The result is that this Government is
constantly called upon to protect American citizens, to claim damages
for injuries to persons and property, now estimated at many millions of
dollars, and to ask explanations and apologies for the acts of Spanish
officials whose zeal for the repression of rebellion sometimes blinds
them to the immunities belonging to the unoffending citizens of a
friendly power. It follows from the same causes that the United States
is compelled to actively police a long line of seacoast against
unlawful expeditions, the escape of which the utmost vigilance will not
always suffice to prevent.

These inevitable entanglements of the United States with the rebellion
in Cuba, the large American property interests affected, and
considerations of philanthropy and humanity in general have led to a
vehement demand in various quarters for some sort of positive
intervention on the part of the United States. It was at first proposed
that belligerent rights should be accorded to the insurgents--a
proposition no longer urged because untimely and in practical operation
dearly perilous and injurious to our own interests. It has since been
and is now sometimes contended that the independence of the insurgents
should be recognized; but imperfect and restricted as the Spanish
government of the island may be, no other exists there, unless the will
of the military officer in temporary command of a particular district
can be dignified as a species of government. It is now also suggested
that the United States should buy the island--a suggestion possibly
worthy of consideration if there were any evidence of a desire or
willingness on the part of Spain to entertain such a proposal. It is
urged finally that, all other methods failing, the existing internecine
strife in Cuba should be terminated by our intervention, even at the
cost of a war between the United States and Spain--a war which its
advocates confidently prophesy could neither be large in its
proportions nor doubtful in its issue.

The correctness of this forecast need be neither affirmed nor denied.
The United States has, nevertheless, a character to maintain as a
nation, which plainly dictates that right and not might should be the
rule of its conduct. Further, though the United States is not a nation
to which peace is a necessity, it is in truth the most pacific of
powers and desires nothing so much as to live in amity with all the
world. Its own ample and diversified domains satisfy all possible
longings for territory, preclude all dreams of conquest, and prevent
any casting of covetous eyes upon neighboring regions, however
attractive. That our conduct toward Spain and her dominions has
constituted no exception to this national disposition is made manifest
by the course of our Government, not only thus far during the present
insurrection, but during the ten years that followed the rising at Yara
in 1868. No other great power, it may safely be said, under
circumstances of similar perplexity, would have manifested the same
restraint and the same patient endurance. It may also be said that this
persistent attitude of the United States toward Spain in connection
with Cuba unquestionably evinces no slight respect and regard for Spain
on the part of the American people. They in truth do not forget her
connection with the discovery of the Western Hemisphere, nor do they
underestimate the great qualities of the Spanish people nor fail to
fully recognize their splendid patriotism and their chivalrous devotion
to the national honor.

They view with wonder and admiration the cheerful resolution with which
vast bodies of men are sent across thousands of miles of ocean and an
enormous debt accumulated that the costly possession of the gem of the
Antilles may still hold its place in the Spanish crown. And yet neither
the Government nor the people of the United States have shut their eyes
to the course of events in Cuba or have failed to realize the existence
of conceded grievances which have led to the present revolt from the
authority of Spain--grievances recognized by the Queen Regent and by
the Cortes, voiced by the most patriotic and enlightened of Spanish
statesmen, without regard to party, and demonstrated by reforms
proposed by the executive and approved by the legislative branch of the
Spanish Government. It is in the assumed temper and disposition of the
Spanish Government to remedy these grievances, fortified by indications
of influential public opinion in Spain, that this Government has hoped
to discover the most promising and effective means of composing the
present strife with honor and advantage to Spain and with the
achievement of all the reasonable objects of the insurrection.

It would seem that if Spain should offer to Cuba genuine autonomy--a
measure of home rule which, while preserving the sovereignty of Spain,
would satisfy all rational requirements of her Spanish subjects--there
should be no just reason why the pacification of the island might not
be effected on that basis. Such a result would appear to be in the true
interest of all concerned. It would at once stop the conflict which is
now consuming the resources of the island and making it worthless for
whichever party may ultimately prevail. It would keep intact the
possessions of Spain without touching her honor, which will be
consulted rather than impugned by the adequate redress of admitted
grievances. It would put the prosperity of the island and the fortunes
of its inhabitants within their own control without severing the
natural and ancient ties which bind them to the mother country, and
would yet enable them to test their capacity for self-government under
the most favorable conditions. It has been objected on the one side
that Spain should not promise autonomy until her insurgent subjects lay
down their arms; on the other side, that promised autonomy, however
liberal, is insufficient, because without assurance of the promise
being fulfilled.

But the reasonableness of a requirement by Spain of unconditional
surrender on the part of the insurgent Cubans before their autonomy is
conceded is not altogether apparent. It ignores important features of
the situation--the stability two years' duration has given to the
insurrection; the feasibility of its indefinite prolongation in the
nature of things, and, as shown by past experience, the utter and
imminent ruin of the island unless the present strife is speedily
composed; above all, the rank abuses which all parties in Spain, all
branches of her Government, and all her leading public men concede to
exist and profess a desire to remove. Facing such circumstances, to
withhold the proffer of needed reforms until the parties demanding them
put themselves at mercy by throwing down their arms has the appearance
of neglecting the gravest of perils and inviting suspicion as to the
sincerity of any professed willingness to grant reforms. The objection
on behalf of the insurgents that promised reforms cannot be relied
upon must of course be considered, though we have no right to assume
and no reason for assuming that anything Spain undertakes to do for the
relief of Cuba will not be done according to both the spirit and the
letter of the undertaking.

Nevertheless, realizing that suspicions and precautions on the part of
the weaker of two combatants are always natural and not always
unjustifiable, being sincerely desirous in the interest of both as well
as on its own account that the Cuban problem should be solved with the
least possible delay, it was intimated by this Government to the
Government of Spain some months ago that if a satisfactory measure of
home rule were tendered the Cuban insurgents and would be accepted by
them upon a guaranty of its execution the United States would endeavor
to find a way not objectionable to Spain of furnishing such graranty.
While no definite response to this intimation has yet been received
from the Spanish Government, it is believed to be not altogether
unwelcome, while, as already suggested, no reason is perceived why it
should not be approved by the insurgents. Neither party can fail to see
the importance of early action, and both must realize that to prolong
the present state of things for even a short period will add enormously
to the time and labor and expenditure necessary to bring about the
industrial recuperation of the island. It is therefore fervently hoped
on all grounds that earnest efforts for healing the breach between
Spain and the insurgent Cubans upon the lines above indicated may be at
once inaugurated and pushed to an immediate and successful issue. The
friendly offices of the United States, either in the manner above
outlined or in any other way consistent with our Constitution and laws,
will always be at the disposal of either party.

Whatever circumstances may arise, our policy and our interests would
constrain us to object to the acquisition of the island or an
interference with its control by any other power.

It should be added that it cannot be reasonably assumed that the
hitherto expectant attitude of the United States will be indefinitely
maintained. While we are anxious to accord all due respect to the
sovereignty of Spain, we cannot view the pending conflict in all its
features and properly apprehend our inevitably close relations to it
and its possible results without considering that by the course of
events we may be drawn into such an unusual and unprecedented condition
as will fix a limit to our patient waiting for Spain to end the
contest, either alone and in her own way or with our friendly
cooperation.

When the inability of Spain to deal successfully with the insurrection
has become manifest and it is demonstrated that her sovereignty is
extinct in Cuba for all purposes of its rightful existence, and when a
hopeless struggle for its reestablishment has degenerated into a strife
which means nothing more than the useless sacrifice of human life and
the utter destruction of the very subject-matter of the conflict, a
situation will be presented in which our obligations to the sovereignty
of Spain will be superseded by higher obligations, which we can hardly
hesitate to recognize and discharge. Deferring the choice of ways and
methods until the time for action arrives, we should make them depend
upon the precise conditions then existing; and they should not be
determined upon without giving careful heed to every consideration
involving our honor and interest or the international duty we owe to
Spain. Until we face the contingencies suggested or the situation is by
other incidents imperatively changed we should continue in the line of
conduct heretofore pursued, thus in all circumstances exhibiting our
obedience to the requirements of public law and our regard for the duty
enjoined upon us by the position we occupy in the family of nations.

A contemplation of emergencies that may arise should plainly lead us to
avoid their creation, either through a careless disregard of present
duty or even an undue stimulation and ill-timed expression of feeling.
But I have deemed it not amiss to remind the Congress that a time may
arrive when a correct policy and care for our interests, as well as a
regard for the interests of other nations and their citizens, joined by
considerations of humanity and a desire to see a rich and fertile
country intimately related to us saved from complete devastation, will
constrain our Government to such action as will subserve the interests
thus involved and at the same time promise to Cuba and its inhabitants
an opportunity to enjoy the blessings of peace.

The Venezuelan boundary question has ceased to be a matter of
difference between Great Britain and the United States, their
respective Governments having agreed upon the substantial provisions of
a treaty between Great Britain and Venezuela submitting the whole
controversy to arbitration. The provisions of the treaty are so
eminently just and fair that the assent of Venezuela thereto may
confidently be anticipated.

Negotiations for a treaty of general arbitration for all differences
between Great Britain and the United States are far advanced and
promise to reach a successful consummation at an early date.

The scheme of examining applicants for certain consular positions to
test their competency and fitness, adopted under an Executive order
issued on the 20th of September, 1895, has fully demonstrated the
usefulness of this innovation. In connection with this plan of
examination promotions and transfers of deserving incumbents have been
quite extensively made, with excellent results.

During the past year 35 appointments have been made in the consular
service, 27 of which were made to fill vacancies caused by death or
resignation or to supply newly created posts, 2 to succeed incumbents
removed for cause, 2 for the purpose of displacing alien consular
officials by American citizens, and 4 merely changing the official
title of incumbent from commercial agent to consul. Twelve of these
appointments were transfers or promotions from other positions under
the Department of State, 4 of those appointed had rendered previous
service under the Department, 8 were made of persons who passed a
satisfactory examination, 7 were appointed to places not included in
the order of September 20, 1895, and 4 appointments, as above stated,
involved no change of incumbency. The inspection of consular offices
provided for by an appropriation for that purpose at the last session
of the Congress has been productive of such wholesome effects that I
hope this important work will in the future be continued. I know of
nothing that can be done with the same slight expense so improving to
the service.

I desire to repeat the recommendation contained in my last annual
message in favor of providing at public expense official residences for
our ambassadors and ministers at foreign capitals. The reasons
supporting this recommendation are strongly stated in the report of the
Secretary of State, and the subject seems of such importance that I
hope it may receive the early attention of the Congress.

We have during the last year labored faithfully and against unfavorable
conditions to secure better preservation of seal life in the Bering
Sea. Both the United States and Great Britain have lately dispatched
commissioners to these waters to study the habits and condition of the
seal herd and the causes of their rapid decrease. Upon the reports of
these commissioners, soon to be submitted, and with the exercise of
patience and good sense on the part of all interested parties, it is
earnestly hoped that hearty cooperation may be secured for the
protection against threatened extinction of seal life in the Northern
Pacific and Bering Sea.

The Secretary of the Treasury reports that during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1896, the receipts of the Government from all sources amounted
to $409,475,408.78. During the same period its expenditures were
$434,678,654.48, the excess of expenditures over receipts thus
amounting to $25,203,245.70. The ordinary expenditures during the year
were $4,015,852.21 less than during the preceding fiscal year. Of the
receipts mentioned there was derived from customs the sum of
$160,021,751.67 and from internal revenue $146,830,615.66. The receipts
from customs show an increase of $7,863,134.22 over those from the same
source for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1895, and the receipts from
internal revenue an increase of $3,584,537.91.

The value of our imported dutiable merchandise during the last fiscal
year was $369,757,470 and the value of free goods imported
$409,967,470, being an increase of $6,523,675 in the value of dutiable
goods and $41,231,034 in the value of free goods over the preceding
year. Our exports of merchandise, foreign and domestic, amounted in
value to $882,606,938, being an increase over the preceding year of
$75,068,773. The average ad valorem duty paid on dutiable goods
imported during the year was 39.94 percent and on free and dutiable
goods taken together 20.55 percent.

The cost of collecting our internal revenue was 2.78 percent, as
against 2.81 percent for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1895. The
total production of distilled spirits, exclusive of fruit brandies, was
86,588,703 taxable gallons, being an increase of 6,639,108 gallons over
the preceding year. There was also an increase of 1,443,676 gallons of
spirits produced from fruit as compared with the preceding year. The
number of barrels of beer produced was 35,859,250, as against
33,589,784 produced in the preceding fiscal year, being all increase of
2,269,466 barrels.

The total amount of gold exported during the last fiscal year was
$112,409,947 and of silver $60,541,670, being an increase of
$45,941,466 of gold and $13,246,384 of silver over the exportations of
the preceding fiscal year. The imports of gold were $33,525,065 and of
silver $28,777,186, being $2,859,695 less of gold and $8,566,007 more
of silver than during the preceding year.

The total stock of metallic money in the United States at the close of
the last fiscal year, ended on the 30th day of June, 1896, was
$1,228,326,035, of which $599,597,964 was in gold and $628,728,071 in
silver.

On the 1st day of November, 1896, the total stock of money of all kinds
in the country was $2,285,410,590, and the amount in circulation, not
including that in the Treasury holdings, was $1,627,055,641, being
$22.63 per capita upon an estimated population of 71,902,000.

The production of the precious metals in the United States during the
calendar year 1895 is estimated to have been 2,254,760 fine ounces of
gold, of the value of $46,610,000, and 55,727,000 fine ounces of
silver, of the commercial value of $36,445,000 and the coinage value of
$72,051,000. The estimated production of these metals throughout the
world during the same period was 9,688,821 fine ounces of gold,
amounting to $200,285,700 in value, and 169,189,249 fine ounces of
silver, of the commercial value of $110,654,000 and of the coinage
value of $218,738,100 according to our ratio.

The coinage of these metals in the various countries of the world
during the same calendar year amounted to $232,701,438 in gold and
$121,996,219 in silver.

The total coinage at the mints of the United States during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1896, amounted to $71,188,468.52, of which
$58,878,490 was in gold coins and $12,309,978.52 in standard silver
dollars, subsidiary coins, and minor coins

The number of national banks organized from the time the law
authorizing their creation was passed up to October 31, 1896, was
5,051, and of this number 3,679 were at the date last mentioned in
active operation, having authorized capital stock of $650,014,895, held
by 288,902 shareholders, and circulating notes amounting to
$211,412,620.

The total outstanding circulating notes of all national banks on the
31st day of October, 1896, amounted to $234,553,807, including
unredeemed but fully secured notes of banks insolvent and in process of
liquidation. The increase in national-bank circulation during the year
ending on that day was $21,099,429. On October 6, 1896, when the
condition of national banks was last reported, the total resources of
the 3,679 active institutions were $3,263,685,313.83, which included
$1,893,268,839.31 in loans and discounts and $362,165,733.85 in money
of all kinds on hand. Of their liabilities $1,597,891,058.03 was due to
individual depositors and $209,944,019 consisted of outstanding
circulating notes.

There were organized during the year preceding the date last mentioned
28 national banks, located in 15 States, of which 12 were organized in
the Eastern States, with a capital of $1,180,000, 6 in the Western
States, with a capital of $875,000, and 10 in the Southern States, with
a capital of $1,190,000. During the year, however, 37 banks voluntarily
abandoned their franchises under the national law, and in the case of
27 others it was found necessary to appoint receivers. Therefore, as
compared with the year preceding, there was a decrease of 36 in the
number of active banks.

The number of existing banks organized under State laws is 5,708. The
number of immigrants arriving in the United States during the fiscal
year was 343,267, of whom 340,468 were permitted to land and 2,799 were
debarred on various grounds prescribed by law and returned to the
countries whence they came at the expense of the steamship companies by
which they were brought in. The increase in immigration over the
preceding year amounted to 84,731. It is reported that with some
exceptions the immigrants of the past year were of a hardy laboring
class, accustomed and able to earn a support for themselves, and it is
estimated that the money brought with them amounted to at least
$5,000,000, though it was probably much in excess of that sum, since
only those having less than $30 are required to disclose the exact
amount, and it is known that many brought considerable sums of money to
buy land and build homes. Including all the immigrants arriving who
were over 14 years of age, 28.63 percent were illiterate, as against
20.37 percent of those of that age arriving during the preceding
fiscal year. The number of immigrants over 14 years old, the countries
from which they came, and the percentage of illiterates among them were
as follows: Italy, 57,515, with 54.59 percent; Ireland, 37,496, with 7
percent; Russia, 35,188, with 41.14 percent; Austria-Hungary and
provinces, 57,053, with 38.92 percent; Germany, 25,334, with 2.96 per
cent; Sweden, 18,821, with 1.16 percent; while from Portugal there
came 2,067, of whom 77.69 percent were illiterate. There arrived from
Japan during the year only 1,110 immigrants, and it is the opinion of
the immigration authorities that the apprehension heretofore existing
to some extent of a large immigration from Japan to the United States
is without any substantial foundation.

From the Life-Saving Service it is reported that the number of
disasters to documented vessels within the limits of its operations
during the year was 437. These vessels had on board 4,608 persons, of
whom 4,595 were saved and 13 lost. The value of such vessels is
estimated at $8,880,140 and of their cargoes $3,846,380, making the
total value of property imperiled $12,726,520. Of this amount
$11,292,707 was saved and $1,432,750 was lost. Sixty-seven of the
vessels were totally wrecked. There were besides 243 casualties to
small undocumented craft, on board of which there were 594 persons, of
whom 587 were saved and 7 were lost. The value of the property involved
in these latter casualties is estimated at $119,265, of which $114,915
was saved and $4,350 was lost. The life-saving crews during the year
also rescued or assisted numerous other vessels and warned many from
danger by signals, both by day and night. The number of disasters
during the year exceeded that of any previous year in the history of
the service, but the saving of both life and property was greater than
ever before in proportion to the value of the property involved and to
the number of persons imperiled.

The operations of the Marine-Hospital Service, the Revenue-Cutter
Service, the Steamboat-Inspection Service, the Light-House Service, the
Bureau of Navigation, and other branches of public work attached to the
Treasury Department, together with various recommendations concerning
their support and improvement, are fully stated in the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to which the attention of the Congress is
especially invited.

The report of the Secretary of War exhibits satisfactory conditions in
the several branches of the public service intrusted to his charge.

The limit of our military force as fixed by law is constantly and
readily maintained. The present discipline and morale of our Army are
excellent, and marked progress and efficiency are apparent throughout
its entire organization.

With the exception of delicate duties in the suppression of slight
Indian disturbances along our southwestern boundary, in which the
Mexican troops cooperated, and the compulsory but peaceful return, with
the consent of Great Britain, of a band of Cree Indians from Montana to
the British possessions, no active operations have been required of the
Army during the year past.

Changes in methods of administration, the abandonment of unnecessary
posts and consequent concentration of troops, and the exercise of care
and vigilance by the various officers charged with the responsibility
in the expenditure of the appropriations have resulted in reducing to a
minimum the cost of maintenance of our military establishment.

During the past year the work of constructing permanent infantry and
cavalry posts has been continued at the places heretofore designated.
The Secretary of War repeats his recommendation that appropriations for
barracks and quarters should more strictly conform to the needs of the
service as judged by the Department rather than respond to the wishes
and importunities of localities. It is imperative that much of the
money provided for such construction should now be allotted to the
erection of necessary quarters for the garrisons assigned to the coast
defenses, where many men will be needed to properly care for and
operate modern guns. It is essential, too, that early provision be made
to supply the necessary force of artillery to meet the demands of this
service.

The entire Army has now been equipped with the new magazine arms, and
wise policy demands that all available public and private resources
should be so employed as to provide within a reasonable time a
sufficient number to supply the State militia with these modern weapons
and provide an ample reserve for any emergency.

The organized militia numbers 112,879 men. The appropriations for its
support by the several States approximate $2,800,000 annually, and
$400,000 is contributed by the General Government. Investigation shows
these troops to be usually well drilled and inspired with much military
interest, but in many instances they are so deficient in proper arms
and equipment that a sudden call to active duty would find them
inadequately prepared for field service. I therefore recommend that
prompt measures be taken to remedy this condition and that every
encouragement be given to this deserving body of unpaid and voluntary
citizen soldiers, upon whose assistance we must largely rely in time of
trouble.

During the past year rapid progress has been made toward the completion
of the scheme adopted for the erection and armament of fortifications
along our seacoast, while equal progress has been made in providing the
material for submarine defense in connection with these works.

It is peculiarly gratifying at this time to note the great advance that
has been made in this important undertaking since the date of my annual
message to the Fifty-third Congress at the opening of its second
session, in December, 1893. At that time I informed the Congress of the
approaching completion of nine 12-inch, twenty 10-inch, and thirty-four
8-inch high-power steel guns and seventy-five 12-inch rifled mortars.

This total then seemed insignificant when compared with the great work
remaining to be done. Yet it was none the less a source of satisfaction
to every citizen when he reflected that it represented the first
installment of the new ordnance of American design and American
manufacture and demonstrated our ability to supply from our own
resources guns of unexcelled power and accuracy.

At that date, however, there were practically no carriages upon which
to mount these guns and only thirty-one emplacements for guns and
sixty-four for mortars. Nor were all these emplacements in condition to
receive their armament. Only one high-power gun was at that time in
position for the defense of the entire coast.

Since that time the number of guns actually completed has been
increased to a total of twenty-one 12-inch, fifty-six 10-inch,
sixty-one 8-inch high-power breech-loading steel guns, ten rapid-fire
guns, and eighty 12-inch rifled mortars. In addition there are in
process of construction one 16-inch-type gun, fifty 12-inch, fifty-six
10-inch, twenty-seven 8-inch high-power guns, and sixty-six 12-inch
rifled mortars; in all, four hundred and twenty-eight guns and mortars.

During the same year, immediately preceding the message referred to,
the first modern gun carriage had been completed and eleven more were
in process of construction. All but one were of the nondisappearing
type. These, however, were not such as to secure necessary cover for
the artillery gunners against the intense fire of modern machine
rapid-fire and high-power guns.

The inventive genius of ordnance and civilian experts has been taxed in
designing carriages that would obviate this fault, resulting, it is
believed, in the solution of this difficult problem. Since 1893 the
number of gun carriages constructed or building has been raised to a
total of 129, of which 90 are on the disappearing principle, and the
number of mortar carriages to 152, while the 95 emplacements which were
provided for prior to that time have been increased to 280 built and
building.

This improved situation is largely due to the recent generous response
of Congress to the recommendations of the War Department.

Thus we shall soon have complete about one-fifth of the comprehensive
system the first step in which was noted in my message to the Congress
of December 4, 1893.

When it is understood that a masonry emplacement not only furnishes a
platform for the heavy modern high-power gun, but also in every
particular serves the purpose and takes the place of the fort of former
days, the importance of the work accomplished is better comprehended.

In the hope that the work will be prosecuted with no less vigor in the
future, the Secretary of War has submitted an estimate by which, if
allowed, there will be provided and either built or building by the end
of the next fiscal year such additional guns, mortars, gun carriages,
and emplacements as will represent not far from one-third of the total
work to be done under the plan adopted for our coast defenses, thus
affording a prospect that the entire work will be substantially
completed within six years. In less time than that, however, we shall
have attained a marked degree of security.

The experience and results of the past year demonstrate that with a
continuation of present careful methods the cost of the remaining work
will be much less than the original estimate.

We should always keep in mind that of all forms of military preparation
coast defense alone is essentially pacific in its nature. While it
gives the sense of security due to a consciousness of strength, it is
neither the purpose nor the effect of such permanent fortifications to
involve us in foreign complications, but rather to guarantee us against
them. They are not temptation to war, but security against it. Thus
they are thoroughly in accord with all the traditions of our national
diplomacy.

The Attorney-General presents a detailed and interesting statement of
the important work done under his supervision during the last fiscal
year.

The ownership and management by the Government of penitentiaries for
the confinement of those convicted in United States courts of
violations of Federal laws, which for many years has been a subject of
Executive recommendation, have at last to a slight extent been realized
by the utilization of the abandoned military prison at Fort Leavenworth
as a United States penitentiary.

This is certainly a movement in the right direction, but it ought to be
at once supplemented by the rebuilding or extensive enlargement of this
improvised prison and the construction of at least one more, to be
located in the Southern States. The capacity of the Leavenworth
penitentiary is so limited that the expense of its maintenance,
calculated at a per capita rate upon the number of prisoners it can
accommodate, does not make as economical an exhibit as it would if it
were larger and better adapted to prison purposes; but I am thoroughly
convinced that economy, humanity, and a proper sense of responsibility
and duty toward those whom we punish for violations of Federal law
dictate that the Federal Government should have the entire control and
management of the penitentiaries where convicted violators are confined.

It appears that since the transfer of the Fort Leavenworth Military
Prison to its new uses the work previously done by prisoners confined
there, and for which expensive machinery has been provided, has been
discontinued. This work consisted of the manufacture of articles for
army use, now done elsewhere. On all grounds it is exceedingly
desirable that the convicts confined in this penitentiary be allowed to
resume work of this description.

It is most gratifying to note the satisfactory results that have
followed the inauguration of the new system provided for by the act of
May 28, 1896, under which certain Federal officials are compensated by
salaries instead of fees. The new plan was put in operation on the 1st
day of July, 1896, and already the great economy it enforces, its
prevention of abuses, and its tendency to a better enforcement of the
laws are strikingly apparent. Detailed evidence of the usefulness of
this long-delayed but now happily accomplished reform will be found
clearly set forth in the Attorney-General's report.

Our Post-Office Department is in good condition, and the exhibit made
of its operations during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1896, if
allowance is made for imperfections in the laws applicable to it, is
very satisfactory. The total receipts during the year were
$82,499,208.40. The total expenditures were $90,626,296.84, exclusive
of the $1,559,898.27 which was earned by the Pacific Railroad for
transportation and credited on their debt to the Government. There was
an increase of receipts over the previous year of $5,516,080.21, or 7.1
percent, and an increase of expenditures of $3,836,124.02, or 4.42 per
cent. The deficit was $1,679,956.19 less than that of the preceding
year. The chief expenditures of the postal service are regulated by law
and are not in the control of the Postmaster-General. All that he can
accomplish by the most watchful administration and economy is to
enforce prompt and thorough collection and accounting for public moneys
and such minor savings in small expenditures and in letting those
contracts, for post-office supplies and star service, which are not
regulated by statute.

An effective cooperation between the Auditor's Office and the
Post-Office Department and the making and enforcement of orders by the
Department requiring immediate notification to their sureties of all
delinquencies on the part of postmasters, and compelling such
postmasters to make more frequent deposits of postal funds, have
resulted in a prompter auditing of their accounts and much less default
to the Government than heretofore.

The year's report shows large extensions of both star-route service and
railway mail service, with increased postal facilities. Much higher
accuracy in handling mails has also been reached, as appears by the
decrease of errors in the railway mail service and the reduction of
mail matter returned to the Dead-Letter Office.

The deficit for the last year, although much less than that of the last
and preceding years, emphasizes the necessity for legislation to
correct the growing abuse of second-class rates, to which the
deficiency is mainly attributable. The transmission at the rate of 1
cent a pound of serial libraries, advertising sheets," house organs"
(periodicals advertising some particular "house" or institution),
sample copies, and the like ought certainly to be discontinued. A
glance at the revenues received for the work done last year will show
more plainly than any other statement the gross abuse of the postal
service and the growing waste of its earnings.

The free matter carried in the mails for the Departments, offices,
etc., of the Government and for Congress, in pounds, amounted to
94,480,189.

If this is offset against buildings for post-offices and stations, the
rental of which would more than compensate for such free postal
service, we have this exhibit:


Weight of mail matter (other than above) transmitted through the mails
for the year ending June 30, 1896.


  Class                                    Weight        Revenue
                                           Pounds

  1. Domestic and foreign letters and
       postal cards, etc                 65,337,343     $60,624,464

  2. Newspapers and periodicals,
       1 cent per pound                 348,988,648       2,996,403

  3. Books, seeds, etc.,
       8 cents a pound                   78,701,148      10,324,069

  4. Parcels, etc., 16 cents a pound     19,950,187       3,129,321

  Total                                 512,977,326      77,044,257

The remainder of our postal revenue, amounting to something more than
$5,000,000, was derived from box rents, registry fees, money-order
business, and other similar items.

The entire expenditures of the Department, including pay for
transportation credited to the Pacific railroads, were $92,186,195.11,
which may be considered as the cost of receiving, carrying, and
delivering the above mail matter. It thus appears that though the
second-class matter constituted more than two-thirds of the total that
was carried, the revenue derived from it was less than one-thirtieth of
the total expense.


  The average revenue was--

  From each pound of first-class matter ......... cents    93.0
  From each pound of second class ............... mills     8.5
  From each pound of third class ................ cents    13.1
  From each pound of fourth class ...............  do      15.6

  Of the second class 52,348,297 was county-free matter.


The growth in weight of second-class matter has been from 299,000,000
pounds in 1894 to 312,000,000 in 1895 and to almost 349,000,000 in
1896, and it is quite evident this increasing drawback is far
outstripping any possible growth of postal revenues.

Our mail service should of course be such as to meet the wants and even
the conveniences of our people at a direct charge upon them so light as
perhaps to exclude the idea of our Post-Office Department being a
money-making concern; but in the face of a constantly recurring
deficiency in its revenues and in view of the fact that we supply the
best mail service in the world it seems to me it is quite time to
correct the abuses that swell enormously our annual deficit. If we
concede the public policy of carrying weekly newspapers free in the
county of publication, and even the policy of carrying at less than
one-tenth of their cost other bona fide newspapers and periodicals,
there can be no excuse for subjecting the service to the further
immense and increasing loss involved in carrying at the nominal rate of
1 cent a pound the serial libraries, sometimes including trashy and
even harmful literature, and other matter which under the loose
interpretation of a loose statute have been gradually given
second-class rates, thus absorbing all profitable returns derived from
first-class matter, which pays three or four times more than its cost,
and producing a large annual loss to be paid by general taxation. If
such second-class matter paid merely the cost of its handling, our
deficit would disappear and a surplus result which might be used to
give the people still better mail facilities or cheaper rates of letter
postage. I recommend that legislation be at once enacted to correct
these abuses and introduce better business ideas in the regulation of
our postal rates.

Experience and observation have demonstrated that certain improvements
in the organization of the Post-Office Department must be secured
before we can gain the full benefit of the immense sums expended in its
administration. This involves the following reforms, which I earnestly
recommend:

There should be a small addition to the existing inspector service, to
be employed in the supervision of the carrier force, which now numbers
13,000 men and performs its service practically without the
surveillance exercised over all other branches of the postal or public
service. Of course such a lack of supervision and freedom from
wholesome disciplinary restraints must inevitably lead to imperfect
service. There should also be appointed a few inspectors who could
assist the central office in necessary investigation concerning matters
of post-office leases, post-office sites, allowances for rent, fuel,
and lights, and in organizing and securing the best results from the
work of the 14,000 clerks now employed in first and second class
offices.

I am convinced that the small expense attending the inauguration of
these reforms would actually be a profitable investment.

I especially recommend such a recasting of the appropriations by
Congress for the Post-Office Department as will permit the
Postmaster-General to proceed with the work of consolidating
post-offices. This work has already been entered upon sufficiently to
fully demonstrate by experiment and experience that such consolidation
is productive of better service, larger revenues, and less
expenditures, to say nothing of the further advantage of gradually
withdrawing post-offices from the spoils system.

The Universal Postal Union, which now embraces all the civilized world
and whose delegates will represent 1,000,000,000 people, will hold its
fifth congress in the city of Washington in May, 1897. The United
States may be said to have taken the initiative which led to the first
meeting of this congress, at Berne in 1874, and the formation of the
Universal Postal Union, which brings the postal service of all
countries to every man's neighborhood and has wrought marvels in
cheapening postal rates and securing absolutely safe mail communication
throughout the world. Previous congresses have met in Berne, Paris,
Lisbon, and Vienna, and the respective countries in which they have
assembled have made generous provision for their accommodation and for
the reception and entertainment of the delegates.

In view of the importance of this assemblage and of its deliberations
and of the honors and hospitalities accorded to our representatives by
other countries on similar occasions, I earnestly hope that such an
appropriation will be made for the expenses necessarily attendant upon
the coming meeting in our capital city as will be worthy of our
national hospitality and indicative of our appreciation of the event.

The work of the Navy Department and its present condition are fully
exhibited in the report of the Secretary.

The construction of vessels for our new Navy has been energetically
prosecuted by the present Administration upon the general lines
previously adopted, the Department having seen no necessity for radical
changes in prior methods, under which the work was found to be
progressing in a manner highly satisfactory. It has been decided,
however, to provide in every shipbuilding contract that the builder
should pay all trial expenses, and it has also been determined to pay
no speed premiums in future contracts. The premiums recently earned and
some yet to be decided are features of the contracts made before this
conclusion was reached.

On March 4, 1893, there were in commission but two armored vessels--the
double-turreted monitors Miantonomoh and Monterey. Since that date, of
vessels theretofore authorized, there have been placed in their first
commission 3 first-class and 2 second-class battle ships, 2 armored
cruisers, 1 harbor-defense ram, and 5 double-turreted monitors,
including the Maine and the Puritan, just completed. Eight new
unarmored cruisers and 2 new gunboats have also been commissioned. The
Iowa, another battle ship, will be completed about March 1, and at
least 4 more gunboats will be ready for sea in the early spring.

It is gratifying to state that our ships and their outfits are believed
to be equal to the best that can be manufactured elsewhere, and that
such notable reductions have been made in their cost as to justify the
statement that quite a number of vessels are now being constructed at
rates as low as those that prevail in European shipyards.

Our manufacturing facilities are at this time ample for all possible
naval contingencies. Three of our Government navy-yards--those at Mare
Island, Cal., Norfolk, Va., and Brooklyn, N. Y.--are equipped for
shipbuilding, our ordnance plant in Washington is equal to any in the
world, and at the torpedo station we are successfully making the
highest grades of smokeless powder. The first-class private shipyards
at Newport News, Philadelphia, and San Francisco are building battle
ships; eleven contractors, situated in the States of Maine, Rhode
Island, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, and the State of
Washington, are constructing gunboats or torpedo boats; two plants are
manufacturing large quantities of first-class armor, and American
factories are producing automobile torpedoes, powder, projectiles,
rapid-fire guns, and everything else necessary for the complete outfit
of naval vessels.

There have been authorized by Congress since March, 1893, 5 battle
ships, 6 light-draft gunboats, 16 torpedo boats, and 1 submarine
torpedo boat. Contracts for the building of all of them have been let.
The Secretary expresses the opinion that we have for the present a
sufficient supply of cruisers and gunboats, and that hereafter the
construction of battle ships and torpedo boats will supply our needs.

Much attention has been given to the methods of carrying on
departmental business. Important modifications in the regulations have
been made, tending to unify the control of shipbuilding as far as may
be under the Bureau of Construction and Repair, and also to improve the
mode of purchasing supplies for the Navy by the Bureau of Supplies and
Accounts. The establishment under recent acts of Congress of a supply
fund with which to purchase these supplies in large quantities and
other modifications of methods have tended materially to their
cheapening and better quality.

The War College has developed into an institution which it is believed
will be of great value to the Navy in teaching the science of war, as
well as in stimulating professional zeal in the Navy, and it will be
especially useful in the devising of plans for the utilization in case
of necessity of all the naval resources of the United States.

The Secretary has persistently adhered to the plan he found in
operation for securing labor at navy-yards through boards of labor
employment, and has done much to make it more complete and efficient.
The naval officers who are familiar with this system and its operation
express the decided opinion that its results have been to vastly
improve the character of the work done at our yards and greatly reduce
its cost.

Discipline among the officers and men of the Navy has been maintained
to a high standard and the percentage of American citizens enlisted has
been very much increased.

The Secretary is considering and will formulate during the coming
winter a plan for laying up ships in reserve, thereby largely reducing
the cost of maintaining our vessels afloat. This plan contemplates that
battle ships, torpedo boats, and such of the cruisers as are not needed
for active service at sea shall be kept in reserve with skeleton crews
on board to keep them in condition, cruising only enough to insure the
efficiency of the ships and their crews in time of activity.

The economy to result from this system is too obvious to need comment.

The Naval Militia, which was authorized a few years ago as an
experiment, has now developed into a body of enterprising young men,
active and energetic in the discharge of their duties and promising
great usefulness. This establishment has nearly the same relation to
our Navy as the National Guard in the different States bears to our
Army, and it constitutes a source of supply for our naval forces the
importance of which is immediately apparent.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents a comprehensive
and interesting exhibit of the numerous and important affairs committed
to his supervision. It is impossible in this communication to do more
than briefly refer to a few of the subjects concerning which the
Secretary gives full and instructive information.

The money appropriated on account of this Department and for its
disbursement for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1896, amounted to more
than $157,000,000, or a greater sum than was appropriated for the
entire maintenance of the Government for the two fiscal years ended
June 30, 1861.

Our public lands, originally amounting to 1,840,000,000 acres, have
been so reduced that only about 600,000,000 acres still remain in
Government control, excluding Alaska. The balance, being by far the
most valuable portion, has been given away to settlers, to new States,
and to railroads or sold at a comparatively nominal sum. The patenting
of land in execution of railroad grants has progressed rapidly during
the year, and since the 4th day of March, 1893, about 25,000,000 acres
have thus been conveyed to these corporations.

I agree with the Secretary that the remainder of our public lands
should be more carefully dealt with and their alienation guarded by
better economy and greater prudence.

The commission appointed from the membership of the National Academy of
Sciences, provided for by an act of Congress, to formulate plans for a
national forestry system will, it is hoped, soon be prepared to present
the result of thorough and intelligent examination of this important
subject.

The total Indian population of the United States is 177,235, according
to a census made in 1895, exclusive of those within the State of New
York and those comprising the Five Civilized Tribes. Of this number
there are approximately 38,000 children of school age. During the year
23,393 of these were enrolled in schools. The progress which has
attended recent efforts to extend Indian-school facilities and the
anticipation of continued liberal appropriations to that end cannot
fail to afford the utmost satisfaction to those who believe that the
education of Indian children is a prime factor in the accomplishment of
Indian civilization.

It may be said in general terms that in every particular the
improvement of the Indians under Government care has been most marked
and encouraging.

The Secretary, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the agents
having charge of Indians to whom allotments have been made strongly
urge the passage of a law prohibiting the sale of liquor to allottees
who have taken their lands in severalty. I earnestly join in this
recommendation and venture to express the hope that the Indian may be
speedily protected against this greatest of all obstacles to his
well-being and advancement.

The condition of affairs among the Five Civilized Tribes, who occupy
large tracts of land in the Indian Territory and who have governments
of their own, has assumed such an aspect as to render it almost
indispensable that there should be an entire change in the relations of
these Indians to the General Government. This seems to be necessary in
furtherance of their own interests, as well as for the protection of
non-Indian residents in their territory. A commission organized and
empowered under several recent laws is now negotiating with these
Indians for the relinquishment of their courts and the division of
their common lands in severalty and are aiding in the settlement of the
troublesome question of tribal membership. The reception of their first
proffers of negotiation was not encouraging, but through patience and
such conduct on their part as demonstrated that their intentions were
friendly and in the interest of the tribes the prospect of success has
become more promising. The effort should be to save these Indians from
the consequences of their own mistakes and improvidence and to secure
to the real Indian his rights as against intruders and professed
friends who profit by his retrogression. A change is also needed to
protect life and property through the operation of courts conducted
according to strict justice and strong enough to enforce their mandates.

As a sincere friend of the Indian, I am exceedingly anxious that these
reforms should be accomplished with the consent and aid of the tribes
and that no necessity may be presented for radical or drastic
legislation I hope, therefore, that the commission now conducting
negotiations will soon be able to report that progress has been made
toward a friendly adjustment of existing difficulties.

It appears that a very valuable deposit of gilsonite or asphaltum has
been found on the reservation in Utah occupied by the Uncompahgre Ute
Indians. Every consideration of care for the public interest and every
sensible business reason dictate such management or disposal of this
important source of public revenue as will except it from the general
rules and incidents attending the ordinary disposition of public lands
and secure to the Government a fair share at least of its advantages in
place of its transfer for a nominal sum to interested individuals.

I indorse the recommendation made by the present Secretary of the
Interior, as well as his predecessor, that a permanent commission,
consisting of three members, one of whom shall be an army officer, be
created to perform the duties now devolving upon the Commissioner and
Assistant Commissioner of Indian Affairs. The management of the Bureau
involves such numerous and diverse details and the advantages of an
uninterrupted policy are so apparent that I hope the change suggested
will meet the approval of the Congress.

The diminution of our enormous pension roll and the decrease of pension
expenditure, which have been so often confidently for told, still fail
in material realization. The number of pensioners on the polls at the
close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1896, was 970,678. This is the
largest number ever reported. The amount paid exclusively for pensions
during the year was $138,214,761.94, a slight decrease from that of the
preceding year, while the total expenditures on account of pensions,
including the cost of maintaining the Department and expenses attending
pension distribution, amounted to $142,206,550.59, or within every
small fraction of one-third of the entire expense of supporting the
Government during the same year. The number of new pension certificates
issued was 90,640. Of these, 40,374 represent original allowances of
claims and 15,878 increases of existing pensions.

The number of persons receiving pensions from the United States, but
residing in foreign countries, at the close of the last fiscal year was
3,781, and the amount paid to them during the year was $582,735.38.

The sum appropriated for the payment of pensions for the current fiscal
year, ending June 30, 1897, is $140,000,000, and for the succeeding
year it is estimated that the same amount will be necessary.

The Commissioner of Pensions reports that during the last fiscal year
339 indictments were found against violators of the pension laws. Upon
these indictments 167 convictions resulted.

In my opinion, based upon such statements as these and much other
information and observation, the abuses which have been allowed to
creep into our pension system have done incalculable harm in
demoralizing our people and undermining good citizenship. I have
endeavored within my sphere of official duty to protect our pension
roll and make it what it should be, a roll of honor, containing the
names of those disabled in their country's service and worthy of their
country's affectionate remembrance. When I have seen those who pose as
the soldiers' friends active and alert in urging greater laxity and
more reckless pension expenditure, while nursing selfish schemes, I
have deprecated the approach of a situation when necessary retrenchment
and enforced economy may lead to an attack upon pension abuses so
determined as to overlook the discrimination due to those who, worthy
of a nation's care, ought to live and die under the protection of a
nation's gratitude.

The Secretary calls attention to the public interests involved in an
adjustment of the obligations of the Pacific railroads to the
Government. I deem it to be an important duty to especially present
this subject to the consideration of the Congress.

On January 1, 1897, with the amount already matured, more than
$13,000,000 of the principal of the subsidy bonds issued by the United
States in aid of the construction of the Union Pacific Railway,
including its Kansas line, and more than $6,000,000 of like bonds
issued in aid of the Central Pacific Railroad, including those issued
to the Western Pacific Railroad Company, will have fallen due and been
paid or must on that day be paid by the Government. Without any
reference to the application of the sinking fund now in the Treasury,
this will create such a default on the part of these companies to the
Government as will give it the right to at once institute proceedings
to foreclose its mortgage lien. In addition to this indebtedness, which
will be due January 1, 1897, there will mature between that date and
January 1, 1899, the remaining principal of such subsidy bonds, which
must also be met by the Government. These amount to more than
$20,000,000 on account of the Union Pacific lines and exceed
$21,000,000 on account of the Central Pacific lines.

The situation of these roads and the condition of their indebtedness to
the Government have been fully set forth in the reports of various
committees to the present and prior Congresses, and as early as 1887
they were thoroughly examined by a special commission appointed
pursuant to an act of Congress. The considerations requiring an
adjustment of the Government's relations to the companies have been
clearly presented and the conclusion reached with practical uniformity
that if these relations are not terminated they should be revised upon
a basis securing their safe continuance.

Under section 4 of the act of Congress passed March 3, 1887, the
President is charged with the duty, in the event that any mortgage or
other incumbrance paramount to the interest of the United States in the
property of the Pacific railroads should exist and be lawfully liable
to be enforced, to direct the action of the Departments of Treasury and
of justice in the protection of the interest of the United States by
redemption or through judicial proceedings, including foreclosures of
the Government liens.

In view of the fact that the Congress has for a number of years almost
constantly had under consideration various plans for dealing with the
conditions existing between these roads and the Government, I have thus
far felt justified in withholding action under the statute above
mentioned.

In the case of the Union Pacific Company, however, the situation has
become especially and immediately urgent. Proceedings have been
instituted to foreclose a first mortgage upon those aided parts of the
main lines upon which the Government holds a second and subordinate
mortgage lien. In consequence of those proceedings and increasing
complications, added to the default occurring on the 1st day of
January, 1897, a condition will be presented at that date, so far as
this company is concerned, that must emphasize the mandate of the act
of 1887 and give to Executive duty under its provisions a more
imperative aspect. Therefore, unless Congress shall otherwise direct or
shall have previously determined upon a different solution of the
problem, there will hardly appear to exist any reason for delaying
beyond the date of the default above mentioned such Executive action as
will promise to subserve the public interests and save the Government
from the loss threatened by further inaction.

The Department of Agriculture is so intimately related to the welfare
of our people and the prosperity of our nation that it should
constantly receive the care and encouragement of the Government. From
small beginnings it has grown to be the center of agricultural
intelligence and the source of aid and encouragement to agricultural
efforts. Large sums of money are annually appropriated for the
maintenance of this Department, and it must be confessed that the
legislation relating to it has not always been directly in the interest
of practical farming or properly guarded against waste and
extravagance. So far, however, as public money has been appropriated
fairly and sensibly to help those who actually till the soil, no
expenditure has been more profitably made or more generally approved by
the people.

Under the present management of the Department its usefulness has been
enhanced in every direction, and at the same time strict economy has
been enforced to the utmost extent permitted by Congressional action.
From the report of the Secretary it appears that through careful and
prudent financial management he has annually saved a large sum from his
appropriations, aggregating during his incumbency and up to the close
of the present fiscal year nearly one-fifth of the entire amount
appropriated. These results have been accomplished by a conscientious
study of the real needs of the farmer and such a regard for economy as
the genuine farmer ought to appreciate, supplemented by a rigid
adherence to civil-service methods in a Department which should be
conducted in the interest of agriculture instead of partisan politics.

The Secretary reports that the value of our exports of farm products
during the last fiscal year amounted to $570,000,000, an increase of
$17,000,000 over those of the year immediately preceding. This
statement is not the less welcome because of the fact that,
notwithstanding such increase, the proportion of exported agricultural
products to our total exports of all descriptions fell off during the
year. The benefits of an increase in agricultural exports being
assured, the decrease in its proportion to our total exports is the
more gratifying when we consider that it is owing to the fact that such
total exports for the year increased more than $75,000,000.

The large and increasing exportation of our agricultural products
suggests the great usefulness of the organization lately established in
the Department for the purpose of giving to those engaged in farming
pursuits reliable information concerning the condition, needs, and
advantages of different foreign markets. Inasmuch as the success of the
farmer depends upon the advantageous sale of his products, and inasmuch
as foreign markets must largely be the destination of such products, it
is quite apparent that a knowledge of the conditions and wants that
affect those markets ought to result in sowing more intelligently and
reaping with a better promise of profit. Such information points out
the way to a prudent foresight in the selection and cultivation of
crops and to a release from the bondage of unreasoning monotony of
production, a glutted and depressed market, and constantly recurring
unprofitable toil.

In my opinion the gratuitous distribution of seeds by the Department as
at present conducted ought to be discontinued. No one can read the
statement of the Secretary on this subject and doubt the extravagance
and questionable results of this practice. The professed friends of the
farmer, and certainly the farmers themselves, are naturally expected to
be willing to rid a Department devoted to the promotion of farming
interests of a feature which tends so much to its discredit.

The Weather Bureau, now attached to the Department of Agriculture, has
continued to extend its sphere of usefulness, and by an uninterrupted
improvement in the accuracy of its forecasts has greatly increased its
efficiency as an aid and protection to all whose occupations are
related to weather conditions.

Omitting further reference to the operations of the Department, I
commend the Secretary's report and the suggestions it contains to the
careful consideration of the Congress.

The progress made in civil-service reform furnishes a cause for the
utmost congratulation. It has survived the doubts of its friends as
well as the rancor of its enemies and has gained a permanent place
among the agencies destined to cleanse our politics and to improve,
economize, and elevate the public service.

There are now in the competitive classified service upward of 84,000
places, more than half of these having been included from time to time
since March 4, 1893. A most radical and sweeping extension was made by
Executive order dated the 6th day of May, 1896, and if fourth-class
postmasterships are not included in the statement it may be said that
practically all positions contemplated by the civil-service law are now
classified. Abundant reasons exist for including these
postmaster-ships, based upon economy, improved service, and the peace
and quiet of neighborhoods. If, however, obstacles prevent such action
at present, I earnestly hope that Congress will, without increasing
post-office appropriations, so adjust them as to permit in proper eases
a consolidation of these post-offices, to the end that through this
process the result desired may to a limited extent be accomplished.

The civil-service rules as amended during the last year provide for a
sensible and uniform method of promotion, basing eligibility to better
positions upon demonstrated efficiency and faithfulness. The absence of
fixed rules on this subject has been an infirmity in the system more
and more apparent as its other benefits have been better appreciated.

The advantages of civil-service methods in their business aspects are
too well understood to require argument. Their application has become a
necessity to the executive work of the Government. But those who gain
positions through the operation of these methods should be made to
understand that the nonpartisan scheme through which they receive their
appointments demands from them by way of reciprocity nonpartisan and
faithful performance of duty under every Administration and cheerful
fidelity to every chief. While they should be encouraged to decently
exercise their rights of citizenship and to support through their
suffrages the political beliefs they honestly profess, the noisy,
pestilent, and partisan employee, who loves political turmoil and
contention or who renders lax and grudging service to an Administration
not representing his political views, should be promptly and fearlessly
dealt with in such a way as to furnish a warning to others who may be
likewise disposed.

The annual report of the Commissioners will be duly transmitted, and I
commend the important matter they have in charge to the careful
consideration of the Congress.

The Interstate Commerce Commission has during the last year supplied
abundant evidence of its usefulness and the importance of the work
committed to its charge.

Public transportation is a universal necessity, and the question of
just and reasonable charges therefor has become of vital importance not
only to shippers and carriers, but also to the vast multitude of
producers and consumers. The justice and equity of the principles
embodied in the existing law passed for the purpose of regulating these
charges are everywhere conceded, and there appears to be no question
that the policy thus entered upon has a permanent place in our
legislation.

As the present statute when enacted was in the nature of the case more
or less tentative and experimental, it was hardly expected to supply a
complete and adequate system. While its wholesome effects are manifest
and have amply justified its enactment, it is evident that all desired
reforms in transportation methods have not been fully accomplished. In
view of the judicial interpretation which some provisions of this
statute have received and the defects disclosed by the efforts made for
its enforcement, its revision and amendment appear to be essential, to
the end that it may more effectually reach the evils designed to be
corrected. I hope the recommendations of the Commission upon this
subject will be promptly and favorably considered by the Congress.

I desire to recur to the statements elsewhere made concerning the
Government's receipts and expenditures for the purpose of venturing
upon some suggestions touching our present tariff law and its operation.

This statute took effect on the 28th day of August, 1894. Whatever may
be its shortcomings as a complete measure of tariff reform, it must be
conceded that it has opened the way to a freer and greater exchange of
commodities between us and other countries, and thus furnished a wider
market for our products and manufactures.

The only entire fiscal year during which this law has been in force
ended on the 30th day of June, 1896. In that year our imports increased
over those of the previous year more than $6,500,000, while the value
of the domestic products we exported and which found markets abroad was
nearly $70,000,000 more than during the preceding year.

Those who insist that the cost to our people of articles coming to them
from abroad for their needful use should only be increased through
tariff charges to an extent necessary to meet the expenses of the
Government, as well as those who claim that tariff charges may be laid
upon such articles beyond the necessities of Government revenue and
with the additional purpose of so increasing their price in our markets
as to give American manufacturers and producers better and more
profitable opportunities, must agree that our tariff laws are only
primarily justified as sources of revenue to enable the Government to
meet the necessary expenses of its maintenance. Considered as to its
efficiency in this aspect, the present law can by no means fall under
just condemnation. During the only complete fiscal year of its
operation it has yielded nearly $8,000,000 more revenue than was
received from tariff duties in the preceding year. There was,
nevertheless, a deficit between our receipts and expenditures of a
little more than $25,000,000 This, however, was not unexpected.

The situation was such in December last, seven months before the close
of the fiscal year, that the Secretary of the Treasury foretold a
deficiency of $17,000,000. The great and increasing apprehension and
timidity in business circles and the depression in all activities
intervening since that time, resulting from causes perfectly well
understood and entirely disconnected with our tariff law or its
operation, seriously checked the imports we would have otherwise
received and readily account for the difference between this estimate
of the Secretary and the actual deficiency, as well as for a continued
deficit. Indeed, it must be confessed that we could hardly have had a
more unfavorable period than the last two years for the collection of
tariff revenue. We cannot reasonably hope that our recuperation from
this business depression will be sudden, but it has already set in with
a promise of acceleration and continuance.

I believe our present tariff law, if allowed a fair opportunity, will
in the near future yield a revenue which, with reasonably economical
expenditures, will overcome all deficiencies. In the meantime no
deficit that has occurred or may occur need excite or disturb us. To
meet any such deficit we have in the Treasury in addition to a gold
reserve of one hundred millions a surplus of more than $128,000,000
applicable to the payment of the expenses of the Government, and which
must, unless expended for that purpose, remain a useless hoard, or, if
not extravagantly wasted, must in any event be perverted from the
purpose of its exaction from our people. The payment, therefore, of any
deficiency in the revenue from this fund is nothing more than its
proper and legitimate use. The Government thus applying a surplus
fortunately in its Treasury to the payment of expenses not met by its
current revenues is not at all to be likened to a man living beyond his
income and thus incurring debt or encroaching on his principal.

It is not one of the functions of our Government to accumulate and make
additions to a fund not needed for immediate expenditure. With
individuals it is the chief object of struggle and effort. The
application of an accumulated fund by the Government to the payment of
its running expenses is a duty. An individual living beyond his income
and embarrassing himself with debt or drawing upon his accumulated fund
of principal is either unfortunate or improvident. The distinction is
between a government charged with the duty of expending for the benefit
of the people and for proper purposes all the money it receives from
any source, and the individual, who is expected to manifest a natural
desire to avoid debt or to accumulate as much as possible and to live
within the income derived from such accumulations, to the end that they
may be increased or at least remain unimpaired for the future use and
enjoyment of himself or the objects of his love and affection who may
survive him.

It is immeasurably better to appropriate our surplus to the payment of
justifiable expenses than to allow it to become an invitation to
reckless appropriations and extravagant expenditures.

I suppose it will not be denied that under the present law our people
obtain the necessaries of a comfortable existence at a cheaper rate
than formerly. This is a matter of supreme importance, since it is the
palpable duty of every just government to make the burdens of taxation
as light as possible. The people should not be required to relinquish
this privilege of cheaper living except under the stress of their
Government's necessity made plainly manifest.

This reference to the condition and prospects of our revenues naturally
suggests an allusion to the weakness and vices of our financial
methods. They have been frequently pressed upon the attention of
Congress in previous Executive communications and the inevitable danger
of their continued toleration pointed out. Without now repeating these
details, I cannot refrain from again earnestly presenting the
necessity of the prompt reform of a system opposed to every rule of
sound finance and shown by experience to be fraught with the gravest
peril and perplexity. The terrible Civil War, which shook the
foundations of our Government more than thirty years ago, brought in
its train the destruction of property, the wasting of our country's
substance, and the estrangement of brethren. These are now past and
forgotten. Even the distressing loss of life the conflict entailed is
but a sacred memory which fosters patriotic sentiment and keeps alive a
tender regard for those who nobly died. And yet there remains with us
to-day in full strength and activity, as an incident of that tremendous
struggle, a feature of its financial necessities not only unsuited to
our present circumstances, but manifestly a disturbing menace to
business security and an ever-present agent of monetary distress.

Because we may be enjoying a temporary relief from its depressing
influence, this should not lull us into a false security nor lead us to
forget the suddenness of past visitations.

I am more convinced than ever that we can have no assured financial
peace and safety until the Government currency obligations upon which
gold may be demanded from the Treasury are withdrawn from circulation
and canceled. This might be done, as has been heretofore recommended,
by their exchange for long-term bonds bearing a low rate of interest or
by their redemption with the proceeds of such bonds. Even if only the
United States notes known as greenbacks were thus retired it is
probable that the Treasury notes issued in payment of silver purchases
under the act of July 14, 1890, now paid in gold when demanded, would
not create much disturbance, as they might from time to time, when
received in the Treasury by redemption in gold or otherwise, be
gradually and prudently replaced by silver coin.

This plan of issuing bonds for the purpose of redemption certainly
appears to be the most effective and direct path to the needed reform.
In default of this, however, it would be a step in the right direction
if currency obligations redeemable in gold whenever so redeemed should
be canceled instead of being reissued. This operation would be a slow
remedy, but it would improve present conditions.

National banks should redeem their own notes. They should be allowed to
issue circulation to the par value of bonds deposited as security for
its redemption and the tax on their circulation should be reduced to
one-fourth of 1 percent.

In considering projects for the retirement of United States notes and
Treasury notes issued under the law of 1890, I am of the opinion that
we have placed too much stress upon the danger of contracting the
currency and have calculated too little upon the gold that would be
added to our circulation if invited to us by better and safer financial
methods. It is not so much a contraction of our currency that should be
avoided as its unequal distribution.

This might be obviated and any fear of harmful contraction at the same
time removed by allowing the organization of smaller banks and in less
populous communities than are now permitted, and also authorizing
existing banks to establish branches in small communities under proper
restrictions.

The entire case may be presented by the statement that the day of
sensible and sound financial methods will not dawn upon us until our
Government abandons the banking business and the accumulation of funds
and confines its monetary operations to the receipt of the money
contributed by the people for its support and to the expenditure of
such money for the people's benefit.

Our business interests and all good citizens long for rest from
feverish agitation and the inauguration by the Government of a reformed
financial policy which will encourage enterprise and make certain the
rewards of labor and industry.

Another topic in which our people rightfully take a deep interest may
be here briefly considered. I refer to the existence of trusts and
other huge aggregations of capital the object of which is to secure the
monopoly of some particular branch of trade, industry, or commerce and
to stifle wholesome competition. When these are defended, it is usually
on the ground that though they increase profits they also reduce
prices, and thus may benefit the public. It must be remembered,
however, that a reduction of prices to the people is not one of the
real objects of these organizations, nor is their tendency necessarily
in that direction. If it occurs in a particular case it is only because
it accords with the purposes or interests of those managing the scheme.

Such occasional results fall far short of compensating the palpable
evils charged to the account of trusts and monopolies. Their tendency
is to crush out individual independence and to hinder or prevent the
free use of human faculties and the full development of human
character. Through them the farmer, the artisan, and the small trader
is in danger of dislodgment from the proud position of being his own
master, watchful of all that touches his country's prosperity, in which
he has an individual lot, and interested in all that affects the
advantages of business of which he is a factor, to be relegated to the
level of a mere appurtenance to a great machine, with little free will,
with no duty but that of passive obedience, and with little hope or
opportunity of rising in the scale of responsible and helpful
citizenship.

To the instinctive belief that such is the inevitable trend of trusts
and monopolies is due the widespread and deep-seated popular aversion
in which they are held and the not unreasonable insistence that,
whatever may be their incidental economic advantages, their general
effect upon personal character, prospects, and usefulness cannot be
otherwise than injurious.

Though Congress has attempted to deal with this matter by legislation,
the laws passed for that purpose thus far have proved ineffective, not
because of any lack of disposition or attempt to enforce them, but
simply because the laws themselves as interpreted by the courts do not
reach the difficulty. If the insufficiencies of existing laws can be
remedied by further legislation, it should be done. The fact must be
recognized, however, that all Federal legislation on this subject may
fall short of its purpose because of inherent obstacles and also
because of the complex character of our governmental system, which,
while making the Federal authority supreme within its sphere, has
carefully limited that sphere by metes and bounds that cannot be
transgressed. The decision of our highest court on this precise
question renders it quite doubtful whether the evils of trusts and
monopolies can be adequately treated through Federal action unless they
seek directly and purposely to include in their objects transportation
or intercourse between States or between the United States and foreign
countries.

It does not follow, however, that this is the limit of the remedy that
may be applied. Even though it may be found that Federal authority is
not broad enough to fully reach the case, there can be no doubt of the
power of the several States to act effectively in the premises, and
there should be no reason to doubt their willingness to judiciously
exercise such power.

In concluding this communication its last words shall be an appeal to
the Congress for the most rigid economy in the expenditure of the money
it holds in trust for the people. The way to perplexing extravagance is
easy, but a return to frugality is difficult. When, however, it is
considered that those who bear the burdens of taxation have no guaranty
of honest care save in the fidelity of their public servants, the duty
of all possible retrenchment is plainly manifest.

When our differences are forgotten and our contests of political
opinion are no longer remembered, nothing in the retrospect of our
public service will be as fortunate and comforting as the recollection
of official duty well performed and the memory of a constant devotion
to the interests of our confiding fellow-countrymen.

GROVER CLEVELAND



pleasing to note that the efforts we have made to enlarge the exchanges
of trade on a sound basis of mutual benefit are in this instance
appreciated by the country from which our woolen factories draw their
needful supply of raw material.

The Missions boundary dispute between the Argentine Republic and
Brazil, referred to the President of the United States as arbitrator
during the term of my predecessor, and which was submitted to me for
determination, resulted in an award in favor of Brazil upon the
historical and documentary evidence presented, thus ending a
long-protracted controversy and again demonstrating the wisdom and
desirability of settling international boundary disputes by recourse to
friendly arbitration.

Negotiations are progressing for a revival of the United States and
Chilean Claims Commission, whose work was abruptly terminated last year
by the expiration of the stipulated time within which awards could be
made.

The resumption of specie payments by Chile is a step of great interest
and importance both in its direct consequences upon her own welfare and
as evincing the ascendency of sound financial principles in one of the
most influential of the South American Republics.

The close of the momentous struggle between China and Japan, while
relieving the diplomatic agents of this Government from the delicate
duty they undertook at the request of both countries of rendering such
service to the subjects of either belligerent within the territorial
limits of the other as our neutral position permitted, developed a
domestic condition in the Chinese Empire which has caused much anxiety
and called for prompt and careful attention. Either as a result of a
weak control by the central Government over the provincial
administrations, following a diminution of traditional governmental
authority under the stress of an overwhelming national disaster, or as
a manifestation upon good opportunity of the aversion of the Chinese
population to all foreign ways and undertakings, there have occurred in
widely separated provinces of China serious outbreaks of the old
fanatical spirit against foreigners, which, unchecked by the local
authorities, if not actually connived at by them, have culminated in
mob attacks on foreign missionary stations, causing much destruction of
property and attended with personal injuries as well as loss of life.

Although but one American citizen was reported to have been actually
wounded, and although the destruction of property may have fallen more
heavily upon the missionaries of other nationalities than our own, it
plainly behooved this Government to take the most prompt and decided
action to guard against similar or perhaps more dreadful calamities
befalling the hundreds of American mission stations which have grown up
throughout the interior of China under the temperate rule of
toleration, custom, and imperial edict. The demands of the United
States and other powers for the degradation and punishment of the
responsible officials of the respective cities and provinces who by
neglect or otherwise had permitted uprisings, and for the adoption of
stern measures by the Emperor's Government for the protection of the
life and property of foreigners, were followed by the disgrace and
dismissal of certain provincial officials found derelict in duty and
the punishment by death of a number of those adjudged guilty of actual
participation in the outrages.

This Government also insisted that a special American commission should
visit the province where the first disturbances occurred for the
purpose of investigation. The latter commission, formed after much
opposition, has gone overland from Tientsin, accompanied by a suitable
Chinese escort, and by its demonstration of the readiness and ability
of our Government to protect its citizens will act, it is believed, as
a most influential deterrent of any similar outbreaks.

The energetic steps we have thus taken are all the more likely to
result in future safety to our citizens in China because the Imperial
Government is, I am persuaded, entirely convinced that we desire only
the liberty and protection of our own citizens and redress for any
wrongs they may have suffered, and that we have no ulterior designs or
objects, political or otherwise. China will not forget either our
kindly service to her citizens during her late war nor the further fact
that, while furnishing all the facilities at our command to further the
negotiation of a peace between her and Japan, we sought no advantages
and interposed no counsel.

The Governments of both China and Japan have, in special dispatches
transmitted through their respective diplomatic representatives,
expressed in a most pleasing manner their grateful appreciation of our
assistance to their citizens during the unhappy struggle and of the
value of our aid in paving the way to their resumption of peaceful
relations.

The customary cordial relations between this country and France have
been undisturbed, with the exception that a full explanation of the
treatment of John L. Waller by the expeditionary military authorities
of France still remains to be given. Mr. Waller, formerly United States
consul at Tamatav, remained in Madagascar after his term of office
expired, and was apparently successful in procuring business
concessions from the Hovas of greater or less value. After the
occupation of Tamatav and the declaration of martial law by the French
he was arrested upon various charges, among them that of communicating
military information to the enemies of France, was tried and convicted
by a military tribunal, and sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment.

Following the course justified by abundant precedents, this Government
requested from that of France the record of the proceedings of the
French tribunal which resulted in Mr. Waller's condemnation. This
request has been complied with to the extent of supplying a copy of the
official record, from which appear the constitution and organization of
the court, the charges as formulated, and the general course and result
of the trial, and by which it is shown that the accused was tried in
open court and was defended by counsel; but the evidence adduced in
support of the charges, which was not received by the French minister
for foreign affairs till the first week in October, has thus far been
withheld, the French Government taking the ground that its production
in response to our demand would establish a bad precedent. The efforts
of our ambassador to procure it, however, though impeded by recent
changes in the French ministry, have not been relaxed, and it is
confidently expected that some satisfactory solution of the matter will
shortly be reached. Meanwhile it appears that Mr. Waller's confinement
has every alleviation which the state of his health and all the other
circumstances of the case demand or permit.

In agreeable contrast to the difference above noted respecting a matter
of common concern, where nothing is sought except such a mutually
satisfactory outcome as the true merits of the case require, is the
recent resolution of the French Chambers favoring the conclusion of a
permanent treaty of arbitration between the two countries.

An invitation has been extended by France to the Government and people
of the United States to participate in a great international exposition
at Paris in 1900 as a suitable commemoration of the close of this the
world's marvelous century of progress. I heartily recommend its
acceptance, together with such legislation as will adequately provide
for a due representation of this Government and its people on the
occasion.

Our relations with the States of the German Empire are in some aspects
typical of a condition of things elsewhere found in countries whose
productions and trade are similar to our own. The close rivalries of
competing industries; the influence of the delusive doctrine that the
internal development of a nation is promoted and its wealth increased
by a policy which, in undertaking to reserve its home markets for the
exclusive use of its own producers, necessarily obstructs their sales
in foreign markets and prevents free access to the products of the
world; the desire to retain trade in time-worn ruts, regardless of the
inexorable laws of new needs and changed conditions of demand and
supply, and our own halting tardiness in inviting a freer exchange of
commodities, and by this means imperiling our footing in the external
markets naturally open to us, have created a situation somewhat
injurious to American export interests, not only in Germany, where they
are perhaps most noticeable, but in adjacent countries. The exports
affected are largely American cattle and other food products, the
reason assigned for unfavorable discrimination being that their
consumption is deleterious to the public health. This is all the more
irritating in view of the fact that no European state is as jealous of
the excellence and wholesomeness of its exported food supplies as the
United States, nor so easily able, on account of inherent soundness, to
guarantee those qualities.

Nor are these difficulties confined to our food products designed for
exportation. Our great insurance companies, for example, having built
up a vast business abroad and invested a large share of their gains in
foreign countries in compliance with the local laws and regulations
then existing, now find themselves within a narrowing circle of onerous
and unforeseen conditions, and are confronted by the necessity of
retirement from a field thus made unprofitable, if, indeed, they are
not summarily expelled, as some of them have lately been from Prussia.

It is not to be forgotten that international trade cannot be
one-sided. Its currents are alternating, and its movements should be
honestly reciprocal. Without this it almost necessarily degenerates
into a device to gain advantage or a contrivance to secure benefits
with only the semblance of a return. In our dealings with other nations
we ought to be open-handed and scrupulously fair. This should be our
policy as a producing nation, and it plainly becomes us as a people who
love generosity and the moral aspects of national good faith and
reciprocal forbearance.

These considerations should not, however, constrain us to submit to
unfair discrimination nor to silently acquiesce in vexatious hindrances
to the enjoyment of our share of the legitimate advantages of proper
trade relations. If an examination of the situation suggests such
measures on our part as would involve restrictions similar to those
from which we suffer, the way to such a course is easy. It should,
however, by no means be lightly entered upon, since the necessity for
the inauguration of such a policy would be regretted by the best
sentiment of our people and because it naturally and logically might
lead to consequences of the gravest character.

I take pleasure in calling to your attention the encomiums bestowed on
those vessels of our new Navy which took part in the notable ceremony
of the opening of the Kiel Canal. It was fitting that this
extraordinary achievement of the newer German nationality should be
celebrated in the presence of America's exposition of the latest
developments of the world' s naval energy.

Our relations with Great Britain, always intimate and important, have
demanded during the past year even a greater share of consideration
than is usual.

Several vexatious questions were left undetermined by the decision of
the Bering Sea Arbitration Tribunal. The application of the principles
laid down by that august body has not been followed by the results they
were intended to accomplish, either because the principles themselves
lacked in breadth and definiteness or because their execution has been
more or less imperfect. Much correspondence has been exchanged between
the two Governments on the subject of preventing the exterminating
slaughter of seals. The insufficiency of the British patrol of Bering
Sea under the regulations agreed on by the two Governments has been
pointed out, and yet only two British ships have been on police duty
during this season in those waters.

The need of a more effective enforcement of existing regulations as
well as the adoption of such additional regulations as experience has
shown to be absolutely necessary to carry out the intent of the award
have been earnestly urged upon the British Government, but thus far
without effective results. In the meantime the depletion of the seal
herds by means of pelagic hunting has so alarmingly progressed that
unless their slaughter is at once effectively checked their extinction
within a few years seems to be a matter of absolute certainty.

The understanding by which the United States was to pay and Great
Britain to receive a lump sum of $425,000 in full settlement of all
British claims for damages arising from our seizure of British sealing
vessels unauthorized under the award of the Paris Tribunal of
Arbitration was not confirmed by the last Congress, which declined to
make the necessary appropriation. I am still of the opinion that this
arrangement was a judicious and advantageous one for the Government,
and I earnestly recommend that it be again considered and sanctioned.
If, however, this does not meet with the favor of Congress, it
certainly will hardly dissent from the proposition that the Government
is bound by every consideration of honor and good faith to provide for
the speedy adjustment of these claims by arbitration as the only other
alternative. A treaty of arbitration has therefore been agreed upon,
and will be immediately laid before the Senate, so that in one of the
modes suggested a final settlement may be reached.

Notwithstanding that Great Britain originated the proposal to enforce
international rules for the prevention of collisions at sea, based on
the recommendations of the Maritime Conference of Washington, and
concurred in, suggesting March 11, 1895, as the date to be set by
proclamation for carrying these rules into general effect, Her
Majesty's Government, having encountered opposition on the part of
British shipping interests, announced its inability to accept that
date, which was consequently canceled. The entire matter is still in
abeyance, without prospect of a better condition in the near future.

The commissioners appointed to mark the international boundary in
Passamaquoddy Bay according to the description of the treaty of Ghent
have not yet fully agreed.

The completion of the preliminary survey of that Alaskan boundary which
follows the contour of the coast from the southernmost point of Prince
of Wales Island until it strikes the one hundred and forty-first
meridian at or near the summit of Mount St. Elias awaits further
necessary appropriation, which is urgently recommended. This survey was
undertaken under the provisions of the convention entered into by this
country and Great Britain July 22, 1892, and the supplementary
convention of February 3, 1894.

As to the remaining section of the Alaskan boundary, which follows the
one hundred and forty-first meridian northwardly from Mount St. Elias
to the Frozen Ocean, the settlement of which involves the physical
location of the meridian mentioned, no conventional agreement has yet
been made. The ascertainment of a given meridian at a particular point
is a work requiring much time and careful observations and surveys.
Such observations and surveys were undertaken by the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1890 and 1891, while similar work in the
same quarters, under British auspices, is believed to give nearly
coincident results; but these surveys have been independently
conducted, and no international agreement to mark those or any other
parts of the one hundred and forty-first meridian by permanent
monuments has yet been made. In the meantime the valley of the Yukon is
becoming a highway through the hitherto unexplored wilds of Alaska, and
abundant mineral wealth has been discovered in that region, especially
at or near the junction of the boundary meridian with the Yukon and its
tributaries. In these circumstances it is expedient, and, indeed,
imperative, that the jurisdictional limits of the respective
Governments in this new region be speedily determined. Her Britannic
Majesty's Government has proposed a joint delimitation of the one
hundred and forty-first meridian by an international commission of
experts, which, if Congress will authorize it and make due provision
therefor, can be accomplished with no unreasonable delay. It is
impossible to overlook the vital importance of continuing the work
already entered upon and supplementing it by further effective measures
looking to the exact location of this entire boundary line.

I call attention to the unsatisfactory delimitation of the respective
jurisdictions of the United States and the Dominion of Canada in the
Great Lakes at the approaches to the narrow waters that connect them.
The waters in question are frequented by fishermen of both
nationalities and their nets are there used. Owing to the uncertainty
and ignorance as to the true boundary, vexations disputes and injurious
seizures of boats and nets by Canadian cruisers often occur, while any
positive settlement thereof by an accepted standard is not easily to be
reached. A joint commission to determine the line in those quarters on
a practical basis, by measured courses following range marks on shore,
is a necessity for which immediate provision should be made.

It being apparent that the boundary dispute between Great Britain and
the Republic of Venezuela concerning the limits of British Guiana was
approaching an acute stage, a definite statement of the interest and
policy of the United States as regards the controversy seemed to be
required both on its own account and in view of its relations with the
friendly powers directly concerned. In July last, therefore, a dispatch
was addressed to our ambassador at London for communication to the
British Government in which the attitude of the United States was fully
and distinctly set forth. The general conclusions therein reached and
formulated are in substance that the traditional and established policy
of this Government is firmly opposed to a forcible increase by any
European power of its territorial possessions on this continent; that
this policy is as well rounded in principle as it is strongly supported
by numerous precedents; that as a consequence the United States is
bound to protest against the enlargement of the area of British Guiana
in derogation of the rights and against the will of Venezuela; that
considering the disparity in strength of Great Britain and Venezuela
the territorial dispute between them can be reasonably settled only by
friendly and impartial arbitration, and that the resort to such
arbitration should include the whole controversy, and is not satisfied
if one of the powers concerned is permitted to draw an arbitrary line
through the territory in debate and to declare that it will submit to
arbitration only the portion lying on one side of it. In view of these
conclusions, the dispatch in question called upon the British
Government for a definite answer to the question whether it would or
would not submit the territorial controversy between itself and
Venezuela in its entirety to impartial arbitration. The answer of the
British Government has not yet been received, but is expected shortly,
when further communication on the subject will probably be made to the
Congress.

Early in January last an uprising against the Government of Hawaii was
promptly suppressed. Martial law was forthwith proclaimed and numerous
arrests were made of persons suspected of being in sympathy with the
Royalist party. Among these were several citizens of the United States,
who were either convicted by a military court and sentenced to death,
imprisonment, or fine or were deported without trial. The United
States, while denying protection to such as had taken the Hawaiian oath
of allegiance, insisted that martial law, though altering the forms of
justice, could not supersede justice itself, and demanded stay of
execution until the proceedings had been submitted to this Government
and knowledge obtained therefrom that our citizens had received fair
trial. The death sentences were subsequently commuted or were remitted
on condition of leaving the islands. The cases of certain Americans
arrested and expelled by arbitrary order without formal charge or trial
have had attention, and in some instances have been found to justify
remonstrance and a claim for indemnity, which Hawaii has not thus far
conceded.

Mr. Thurston, the Hawaiian minister, having furnished this Government
abundant reason for asking that he be recalled, that course was
pursued, and his successor has lately been received.

The deplorable lynching of several Italian laborers in Colorado was
naturally followed by international representations, and I am happy to
say that the best efforts of the State in which the outrages occurred
have been put forth to discover and punish the authors of this
atrocious crime. The dependent families of some of the unfortunate
victims invite by their deplorable condition gracious provision for
their needs.

These manifestations against helpless aliens may be traced through
successive stages to the vicious padroni system, which, unchecked by
our immigration and contract-labor statutes, controls these workers
from the moment of landing on our shores and farms them out in distant
and often rude regions, where their cheapening competition in the
fields of bread-winning toil brings them into collision with other
labor interests. While welcoming, as we should, those who seek our
shores to merge themselves in our body politic and win personal
competence by honest effort, we cannot regard such assemblages of
distinctively alien laborers, hired out in the mass to the profit of
alien speculators and shipped hither and thither as the prospect of
gain may dictate, as otherwise than repugnant to the spirit of our
civilization, deterrent to individual advancement, and hindrances to
the building up of stable communities resting upon the wholesome
ambitions of the citizen and constituting the prime factor in the
prosperity and progress of our nation. If legislation can reach this
growing evil, it certainly should be attempted.

Japan has furnished abundant evidence of her vast gain in every trait
and characteristic that constitutes a nation's greatness. We have
reason for congratulation in the fact that the Government of the United
States, by the exchange of liberal treaty stipulations with the new
Japan, was the first to recognize her wonderful advance and to extend
to her the consideration and confidence due to her national
enlightenment and progressive character.

The boundary dispute which lately threatened to embroil Guatemala and
Mexico has happily yielded to pacific counsels, and its determination
has, by the joint agreement of the parties, been submitted to the sole
arbitration of the United States minister to Mexico.

The commission appointed under the convention of February 18, 1889, to
set new monuments along the boundary between the United States and
Mexico has completed its task.

As a sequel to the failure of a scheme for the colonization in Mexico
of negroes, mostly immigrants from Alabama under contract, a great
number of these helpless and suffering people, starving and smitten
with contagious disease, made their way or were assisted to the
frontier, where, in wretched plight, they were quarantined by the Texas
authorities. Learning of their destitute condition, I directed rations
to be temporarily furnished them through the War Department. At the
expiration of their quarantine they were conveyed by the railway
companies at comparatively nominal rates to their homes in Alabama,
upon my assurance, in the absence of any fund available for the cost of
their transportation, that I would recommend to Congress an
appropriation for its payment. I now strongly urge upon Congress the
propriety of making such an appropriation. It should be remembered that
the measures taken were dictated not only by sympathy and humanity, but
by a conviction that it was not compatible with the dignity of this
Government that so large a body of our dependent citizens should be
thrown for relief upon the charity of a neighboring state.

In last year's message I narrated at some length the jurisdictional
questions then freshly arisen in the Mosquito Indian Strip of
Nicaragua. Since that time, by the voluntary act of the Mosquito
Nation, the territory reserved to them has been incorporated with
Nicaragua, the Indians formally subjecting themselves to be governed by
the general laws and regulations of the Republic instead of by their
own customs and regulations, and thus availing themselves of a
privilege secured to them by the treaty between Nicaragua and Great
Britain of January 28, 1860.

After this extension of uniform Nicaraguan administration to the
Mosquito Strip, the case of the British vice-consul, Hatch, and of
several of his countrymen who had been summarily expelled from
Nicaragua and treated with considerable indignity provoked a claim by
Great Britain upon Nicaragua for pecuniary indemnity, which, upon
Nicaragua's refusal to admit liability, was enforced by Great Britain.
While the sovereignty and jurisdiction of Nicaragua was in no way
questioned by Great Britain, the former's arbitrary conduct in regard
to British subjects furnished the ground for this proceeding.

A British naval force occupied without resistance the Pacific seaport
of Corinto, but was soon after withdrawn upon the promise that the sum
demanded would be paid. Throughout this incident the kindly offices of
the United States were invoked and were employed in favor of as
peaceful a settlement and as much consideration and indulgence toward
Nicaragua as were consistent with the nature of the case. Our efforts
have since been made the subject of appreciative and grateful
recognition by Nicaragua. The coronation of the Czar of Russia at
Moscow in May next invites the ceremonial participation of the United
States, and in accordance with usage and diplomatic propriety our
minister to the imperial court has been directed to represent our
Government on the occasion.

Correspondence is on foot touching the practice of Russian consuls
within the jurisdiction of the United States to interrogate citizens as
to their race and religious faith, and upon ascertainment thereof to
deny to Jews authentication of passports or legal documents for use in
Russia. Inasmuch as such a proceeding imposes a disability which in the
case of succession to property in Russia may be found to infringe the
treaty rights of our citizens, and which is an obnoxious invasion of
our territorial jurisdiction, it has elicited fitting remonstrance, the
result of which, it is hoped, will remove the cause of complaint. The
pending claims of sealing vessels of the United States seized in
Russian waters remain unadjusted. Our recent convention with Russia
establishing a modus vivendi as to imperial jurisdiction in such cases
has prevented further difficulty of this nature.

The Russian Government has welcomed in principle our suggestion for a
modus vivendi, to embrace Great Britain and Japan, looking to the
better preservation of seal life in the North Pacific and Bering Sea
and the extension of the protected area defined by the Paris Tribunal
to all Pacific waters north of the thirty-fifth parallel. It is
especially noticeable that Russia favors prohibition of the use of
firearms in seal hunting throughout the proposed area and a longer
closed season for pelagic sealing.

In my last two annual messages I called the attention of the Congress
to the position we occupied as one of the parties to a treaty or
agreement by which we became jointly bound with England and Germany to
so interfere with the government and control of Samoa as in effect to
assume the management of its affairs. On the 9th day of May, 1894, I
transmitted to the Senate a special message, with accompanying
documents, giving information on the subject and emphasizing the
opinion I have at all times entertained, that our situation in this
matter was inconsistent with the mission and traditions of our
Government, in violation of the principles we profess, and in all its
phases mischievous and vexatious.

I again press this subject upon the attention of the Congress and ask
for such legislative action or expression as will lead the way to our
relief from obligations both irksome and unnatural.

Cuba is again gravely disturbed. An insurrection in some respects more
active than the last preceding revolt, which continued from 1868 to
1878, now exists in a large part of the eastern interior of the island,
menacing even some populations on the coast. Besides deranging the
commercial exchanges of the island, of which our country takes the
predominant share, this flagrant condition of hostilities, by arousing
sentimental sympathy and inciting adventurous support among our people,
has entailed earnest effort on the part of this Government to enforce
obedience to our neutrality laws and to prevent the territory of the
United States from being abused as a vantage ground from which to aid
those in arms against Spanish sovereignty.

Whatever may be the traditional sympathy of our countrymen as
individuals with a people who seem to be struggling for larger autonomy
and greater freedom, deepened, as such sympathy naturally must be, in
behalf of our neighbors, yet the plain duty of their Government is to
observe in good faith the recognized obligations of international
relationship. The performance of this duty should not be made more
difficult by a disregard on the part of our citizens of the obligations
growing out of their allegiance to their country, which should restrain
them from violating as individuals the neutrality which the nation of
which they are members is bound to observe in its relations to friendly
sovereign states. Though neither the warmth of our people's sympathy
with the Cuban insurgents, nor our loss and material damage consequent
upon the futile endeavors thus far made to restore peace and order, nor
any shock our humane sensibilities may have received from the cruelties
which appear to especially characterize this sanguinary and fiercely
conducted war, have in the least shaken the determination of the
Government to honestly fulfill every international obligation, yet it
is to be earnestly hoped on every ground that the devastation of armed
conflict may speedily be stayed and order and quiet restored to the
distracted island, bringing in their train the activity and thrift of
peaceful pursuits.

One notable instance of interference by Spain with passing American
ships has occurred. On March 8 last the Allianca, while bound from
Colon to New York, and following the customary track for vessels near
the Cuban shore, but outside the 3-mile limit, was fired upon by a
Spanish gunboat. Protest was promptly made by the United States against
this act as not being justified by a state of war, nor permissible in
respect of vessels on the usual paths of commerce, nor tolerable in
view of the wanton peril occasioned to innocent life and property. The
act was disavowed, with full expression of regret and assurance of
nonrecurrence of such just cause of complaint, while the offending
officer was relieved of his command. Military arrests of citizens of
the United States in Cuba have occasioned frequent reclamations. Where
held on criminal charges their delivery to the ordinary civil
jurisdiction for trial has been demanded and obtained in conformity
with treaty provisions, and where merely detained by way of military
precaution under a proclaimed state of siege, without formulated
accusation, their release or trial has been insisted upon. The right of
American consular officers in the island to prefer protests and demands
in such cases having been questioned by the insular authority, their
enjoyment of the privilege stipulated by treaty for the consuls of
Germany was claimed under the most-favored-nation provision of our own
convention and was promptly recognized.

The long-standing demand of Antonio Maximo Mora against Spain has at
last been settled by the payment, on the 14th of September last, of the
sum originally agreed upon in liquidation of the claim. Its
distribution among the parties entitled to receive it has proceeded as
rapidly as the rights of those claiming the fund could be safely
determined.

The enforcement of differential duties against products of this country
exported to Cuba and Puerto Rico prompted the immediate claim on our
part to the benefit of the minimum tariff of Spain in return for the
most favorable treatment permitted by our laws as regards the
production of Spanish territories. A commercial arrangement was
concluded in January last securing the treatment so claimed.

Vigorous protests against excessive fines imposed on our ships and
merchandise by the customs officers of these islands for trivial errors
have resulted in the remission of such fines in instances where the
equity of the complaint was apparent, though the vexatious practice has
not been wholly discontinued.

Occurrences in Turkey have continued to excite concern. The reported
massacres of Christians in Armenia and the development there and in
other districts of a spirit of fanatic hostility to Christian
influences naturally excited apprehension for the safety of the devoted
men and women who, as dependents of the foreign missionary societies in
the United States, reside in Turkey under the guaranty of law and usage
and in the legitimate performance of their educational and religious
mission. No efforts have been spared in their behalf, and their
protection in person and property has been earnestly and vigorously
enforced by every means within our power.

I regret, however, that an attempt on our part to obtain better
information concerning the true condition of affairs in the disturbed
quarter of the Ottoman Empire by sending thither the United States
consul at Sivas to make investigation and report was thwarted by the
objections of the Turkish Government. This movement on our part was in
no sense meant as a gratuitous entanglement of the United States in the
so-called Eastern question nor as an officious interference with the
right and duty which belong by treaty to certain great European powers
calling for their intervention in political matters affecting the good
government and religious freedom of the non-Mussulman subjects of the
Sultan, but it arose solely from our desire to have an accurate
knowledge of the conditions in our efforts to care for those entitled
to our protection.

The presence of our naval vessels which are now in the vicinity of the
disturbed localities affords opportunities to acquire a measure of
familiarity with the condition of affairs and will enable us to take
suitable steps for the protection of any interests of our countrymen
within reach of our ships that might be found imperiled.

The Ottoman Government has lately issued an imperial irade exempting
forever from taxation an American college for girls at Scutari.
Repeated assurances have also been obtained by our envoy at
Constantinople that similar institutions maintained and administered by
our countrymen shall be secured in the enjoyment of all rights and that
our citizens throughout the Empire shall be protected.

The Government, however, in view of existing facts, is far from relying
upon such assurances as the limit of its duty. Our minister has been
vigilant and alert in affording all possible protection in individual
cases where danger threatened or safety was imperiled. We have sent
ships as far toward the points of actual disturbance as it is possible
for them to go, where they offer refuge to those obliged to flee, and
we have the promise of other powers which have ships in the
neighborhood that our citizens as well as theirs will be received and
protected on board those ships. On the demand of our minister orders
have been issued by the Sultan that Turkish soldiers shall guard and
escort to the coast American refugees.

These orders have been carried out, and our latest intelligence gives
assurance of the present personal safety of our citizens and
missionaries. Though thus far no lives of American citizens have been
sacrificed, there can be no doubt that serious loss and destruction of
mission property have resulted from riotous conflicts and outrageous
attacks.

By treaty several of the most powerful European powers have secured a
right and have assumed a duty not only in behalf of their own citizens
and in furtherance of their own interests, but as agents of the
Christian world. Their right is to enforce such conduct of Turkish
government as will restrain fanatical brutality, and if this fails
their duty is to so interfere as to insure against such dreadful
occurrences in Turkey as have lately shocked civilization. The powers
declare this right and this duty to be theirs alone, and it is
earnestly hoped that prompt and effective action on their part will not
be delayed.

The new consulates at Erzerum and Harpoot, for which appropriation was
made last session, have been provisionally filled by trusted employees
of the Department of State. These appointees, though now in Turkey,
have not yet received their exequaturs.

The arbitration of the claim of the Venezuela Steam Transportation
Company under the treaty of January 19, 1892, between the United States
and Venezuela, resulted in an award in favor of the claimant.

The Government has used its good offices toward composing the
differences between Venezuela on the one hand and France and Belgium on
the other growing out of the dismissal of the representatives of those
powers on the ground of a publication deemed offensive to Venezuela.
Although that dismissal was coupled with a cordial request that other
more personally agreeable envoys be sent in their stead, a rupture of
intercourse ensued and still continues.

In view of the growth of our interests in foreign countries and the
encouraging prospects for a general expansion of our commerce, the
question of an improvement in the consular service has increased in
importance and urgency. Though there is no doubt that the great body of
consular officers are rendering valuable services to the trade and
industries of the country, the need of some plan of appointment and
control which would tend to secure a higher average of efficiency can
not be denied.

The importance of the subject has led the Executive to consider what
steps might properly be taken without additional legislation to answer
the need of a better system of consular appointments. The matter having
been committed to the consideration of the Secretary of State, in
pursuance of his recommendations an Executive order was issued on the
20th of September, 1895, by the terms of which it is provided that
after that date any vacancy in a consulate or commercial agency with an
annual salary or compensation from official fees of not more than
$2,500 or less than $1,000 should be filled either by transfer or
promotion from some other position under the Department of State of a
character tending to qualify the incumbent for the position to be
filled, or by the appointment of a person not under the Department of
State, but having previously served thereunder and shown his capacity
and fitness for consular duty, or by the appointment of a person who,
having been selected by the President and sent to a board for
examination, is found upon such examination to be qualified for the
position. Posts which pay less than $1,000 being usually, on account of
their small compensation, filled by selection from residents of the
locality, it was not deemed practicable to put them under the new
system.

The compensation of $2,500 was adopted as the maximum limit in the
classification for the reason that consular officers receiving more
than that sum are often charged with functions and duties scarcely
inferior in dignity and importance to those of diplomatic agents, and
it was therefore thought best to continue their selection in the
discretion of the Executive without subjecting them to examination
before a board. Excluding 71 places with compensation at present less
than $1,000 and 53 places above the maximum in compensation, the number
of positions remaining within the scope of the order is 196. This
number will undoubtedly be increased by the inclusion of consular
officers whose remuneration in fees, now less than $1,000, will be
augmented with the growth of our foreign commerce and a return to more
favorable business conditions.

In execution of the Executive order referred to the Secretary of State
has designated as a board to conduct the prescribed examinations the
Third Assistant Secretary of State, the Solicitor of the Department of
State, and the Chief of the Consular Bureau, and has specified the
subjects to which such examinations shall relate.

It is not assumed that this system will prove a full measure of
consular reform. It is quite probable that actual experience will show
particulars in which the order already issued may be amended and
demonstrate that for the best results appropriate legislation by
Congress is imperatively required.

In any event, these efforts to improve the consular service ought to be
immediately supplemented by legislation providing for consular
inspection. This has frequently been a subject of Executive
recommendation, and I again urge such action by Congress as will permit
the frequent and thorough inspection of consulates by officers
appointed for that purpose or by persons already in the diplomatic or
consular service. The expense attending such a plan would be
insignificant compared with its usefulness, and I hope the legislation
necessary to set it on foot will be speedily forthcoming.

I am thoroughly convinced that in addition to their salaries our
ambassadors and ministers at foreign courts should be provided by the
Government with official residences. The salaries of these officers are
comparatively small and in most cases insufficient to pay, with other
necessary expenses, the cost of maintaining household establishments in
keeping with their important and delicate functions. The usefulness of
a nation's diplomatic representative undeniably depends much upon the
appropriateness of his surroundings, and a country like ours, while
avoiding unnecessary glitter and show, should be certain that it does
not suffer in its relations with foreign nations through parsimony and
shabbiness in its diplomatic outfit. These considerations and the other
advantages of having fixed and somewhat permanent locations for our
embassies would abundantly justify the moderate expenditure necessary
to carry out this suggestion.

As we turn from a review of our foreign relations to the contemplation
of our national financial situation we are immediately aware that we
approach a subject of domestic concern more important than any other
that can engage our attention, and one at present in such a perplexing
and delicate predicament as to require prompt and wise treatment.

We may well be encouraged to earnest effort in this direction when we
recall the steps already taken toward improving our economic and
financial situation and when we appreciate how well the way has been
prepared for further progress by an aroused and intelligent popular
interest in these subjects.

By command of the people a customs-revenue system designed for the
protection and benefit of favored classes at the expense of the great
mass of our countrymen, and which, while inefficient for the purpose of
revenue, curtailed our trade relations and impeded our entrance to the
markets of the world, has been superseded by a tariff policy which in
principle is based upon a denial of the right of the Government to
obstruct the avenues to our people's cheap living or lessen their
comfort and contentment for the sake of according especial advantages
to favorites, and which, while encouraging our intercourse and trade
with other nations, recognizes the fact that American self-reliance,
thrift, and ingenuity can build up our country's industries and develop
its resources more surely than enervating paternalism.

The compulsory purchase and coinage of silver by the Government,
unchecked and unregulated by business conditions and heedless of our
currency needs, which for more than fifteen years diluted our
circulating medium, undermined confidence abroad in our financial
ability, and at last culminated in distress and panic at home, has been
recently stopped by the repeal of the laws which forced this reckless
scheme upon the country.

The things thus accomplished, notwithstanding their extreme importance
and beneficent effects, fall far short of curing the monetary evils
from which we suffer as a result of long indulgence in ill-advised
financial expedients.

The currency denominated United States notes and commonly known as
greenbacks was issued in large volume during the late Civil War and was
intended originally to meet the exigencies of that period. It will be
seen by a reference to the debates in Congress at the time the laws
were passed authorizing the issue of these notes that their advocates
declared they were intended for only temporary use and to meet the
emergency of war. In almost if not all the laws relating to them some
provision was made contemplating their voluntary or compulsory
retirement. A large quantity of them, however, were kept on foot and
mingled with the currency of the country, so that at the close of the
year 1874 they amounted to $381,999,073.

Immediately after that date, and in January, 1875, a law was passed
providing for the resumption of specie payments, by which the Secretary
of the Treasury was required whenever additional circulation was issued
to national banks to retire United States notes equal in amount to 80
percent of such additional national-bank circulation until such notes
were reduced to $300,000,000. This law further provided that on and
after the 1st day of January, 1879, the United States notes then
outstanding should be redeemed in coin, and in order to provide and
prepare for such redemption the Secretary of the Treasury was
authorized not only to use any surplus revenues of the Government, but
to issue bonds of the United States and dispose of them for coin and to
use the proceeds for the purposes contemplated by the statute.

In May, 1878, and before the date thus appointed for the redemption and
retirement of these notes, another statute was passed forbidding their
further cancellation and retirement. Some of them had, however, been
previously redeemed and canceled upon the issue of additional
national-bank circulation, as permitted by the law of 1875, so that the
amount outstanding at the time of the passage of the act forbidding
their further retirement was $346,681,016.

The law of 1878 did not stop at distinct prohibition, but contained in
addition the following express provision:

And when any of said notes may be redeemed or be received into the
Treasury under any law from any source whatever, and shall belong to
the United States, they shall not be retired, canceled, or destroyed,
but they shall be reissued and paid out again and kept in circulation.
 This was the condition of affairs on the 1st day of January, 1879, which had been fixed upon four years before as the date for entering upon the redemption and retirement of all these notes, and for which such abundant means had been provided.
The Government was put in the anomalous situation of owing to the
holders of its notes debts payable in gold on demand which could
neither be retired by receiving such notes in discharge of obligations
due the Government nor canceled by actual payment in gold. It was
forced to redeem without redemption and to pay without acquittance.

There had been issued and sold $95,500,000 of the bonds authorized by
the resumption act of 1875, the proceeds of which, together with other
gold in the Treasury, created a gold fund deemed sufficient to meet the
demands which might be made upon it for the redemption of the
outstanding United States notes. This fund, together with such other
gold as might be from time to time in the Treasury available for the
same purpose, has been since called our gold reserve, and $100,000,000
has been regarded as an adequate amount to accomplish its object. This
fund amounted on the 1st day of January, 1879, to $114,193,360, and
though thereafter constantly fluctuating it did not fall below that sum
until July, 1892. In April, 1893, for the first time since its
establishment, this reserve amounted to less than $100,000,000,
containing at that date only $97,011,330.

In the meantime, and in July, 1890, an act had been passed directing
larger governmental monthly purchases of silver than had been required
under previous laws, and providing that in payment for such silver
Treasury notes of the United States should be issued payable on demand
in gold or silver coin, at the discretion of the Secretary of the
Treasury. It was, however, declared in the act to be" the established
policy of the United States to maintain the two metals on a parity with
each other upon the present legal ratio or such ratio as may be
provided by law." In view of this declaration it was not deemed
permissible for the Secretary of the Treasury to exercise the
discretion in terms conferred on him by refusing to pay gold on these
notes when demanded, because by such discrimination in favor of the
gold dollar the so-called parity of the two metals would be destroyed
and grave and dangerous consequences would be precipitated by affirming
or accentuating the constantly widening disparity between their actual
values under the existing ratio.

It thus resulted that the Treasury notes issued in payment of silver
purchases under the law of 1890 were necessarily treated as gold
obligations at the option of the holder. These notes on the 1st day of
November, 1893, when the law compelling the monthly purchase of silver
was repealed, amounted to more than $155,000,000. The notes of this
description now outstanding added to the United States notes still
undiminished by redemption or cancellation constitute a volume of gold
obligations amounting to nearly $500,000,000.

These obligations are the instruments which ever since we had a gold
reserve have been used to deplete it.

This reserve, as has been stated, had fallen in April, 1893, to
$97,111,330. It has from that time to the present, with very few and
unimportant upward movements, steadily decreased, except as it has been
temporarily replenished by the sale of bonds.

Among the causes for this constant and uniform shrinkage in this fund
may be mentioned the great falling off of exports under the operation
of the tariff law until recently in force, which crippled our exchange
of commodities with foreign nations and necessitated to some extent the
payment of our balances in gold; the unnatural infusion of silver into
our currency and the increasing agitation for its free and unlimited
coinage, which have created apprehension as to our disposition or
ability to continue gold payments; the consequent hoarding of gold at
home and the stoppage of investments of foreign capital, as well as the
return of our securities already sold abroad; and the high rate of
foreign exchange, which induced the shipment of our gold to be drawn
against as a matter of speculation.

In consequence of these conditions the gold reserve on the 1st day of
February, 1894, was reduced to $65,438,377, having lost more than
$31,000,000 during the preceding nine months, or since April, 1893. Its
replenishment being necessary and no other manner of accomplishing it
being possible, resort was had to the issue and sale of bonds provided
for by the resumption act of 1875. Fifty millions of these bonds were
sold, yielding $58,633,295.71, which was added to the reserve fund of
gold then on hand. As a result of this operation this reserve, which
had suffered constant and large withdrawals in the meantime, stood on
the 6th day of March, 1894, at the sum of $107,446,802. Its depletion
was, however, immediately thereafter so accelerated that on the 30th
day of June, 1894, it had fallen to $64,873,025, thus losing by
withdrawals more than $42,000,000 in five months and dropping slightly
below its situation when the sale of $50,000,000 in bonds was effected
for its replenishment.

This depressed condition grew worse, and on the 24th day of November,
1894, our gold reserve being reduced to $57,669,701, it became
necessary to again strengthen it.

This was done by another sale of bonds amounting to $50,000,000, from
which there was realized $58,538,500, with which the fund was increased
to $111,142,021 on the 4th day of December, 1894.

Again disappointment awaited the anxious hope for relief. There was not
even a lull in the exasperating withdrawals of gold. On the contrary,
they grew larger and more persistent than ever. Between the 4th day of
December, 1894, and early in February, 1895, a period of scarcely more
than two months after the second reenforcement of our gold reserve by
the sale of bonds, it had lost by such withdrawals more than
$69,000,000 and had fallen to $41,340,181. Nearly $43,000,000 had been
withdrawn within the month immediately preceding this situation.

In anticipation of impending trouble I had on the 28th day of January,
1895, addressed a communication to the Congress fully setting forth our
difficulties and dangerous position and earnestly recommending that
authority be given the Secretary of the Treasury to issue bonds bearing
a low rate of interest, payable by their terms in gold, for the purpose
of maintaining a sufficient gold reserve and also for the redemption
and cancellation of outstanding United States notes and the Treasury
notes issued for the purchase of silver under the law of 1890. This
recommendation did not, however, meet with legislative approval.

In February, 1895, therefore, the situation was exceedingly critical.
With a reserve perilously low and a refusal of Congressional aid,
everything indicated that the end of gold payments by the Government
was imminent. The results of prior bond issues had been exceedingly
unsatisfactory, and the large withdrawals of gold immediately
succeeding their public sale in open market gave rise to a reasonable
suspicion that a large part of the gold paid into the Treasury upon
such sales was promptly drawn out again by the presentation of United
States notes or Treasury notes, and found its way to the hands of those
who had only temporarily parted with it in the purchase of bonds.

In this emergency, and in view of its surrounding perplexities, it
became entirely apparent to those upon whom the struggle for safety was
devolved not only that our gold reserve must, for the third time in
less than thirteen months, be restored by another issue and sale of
bonds bearing a high rate of interest and badly suited to the purpose,
but that a plan must be adopted for their disposition promising better
results than those realized on previous sales. An agreement was
therefore made with a number of financiers and bankers whereby it was
stipulated that bonds described in the resumption act of 1875, payable
in coin thirty years after their date, bearing interest at the rate of
4 pet cent per annum, and amounting to about $62,000,000, should be
exchanged for gold, receivable by weight, amounting to a little more
than $65,000,000.

This gold was to be delivered in such installments as would complete
its delivery within about six months from the date of the contract, and
at least one-half of the amount was to be furnished from abroad. It was
also agreed by those supplying this gold that during the continuance of
the contract they would by every means in their power protect the
Government against gold withdrawals. The contract also provided that if
Congress would authorize their issue bonds payable by their terms in
gold and bearing interest at the rate of 3 percent per annum might
within ten days be substituted at par for the 4 percent bonds
described in the agreement.

On the day this contract was made its terms were communicated to
Congress by a special Executive message, in which it was stated that
more than $16,000,000 would be saved to the Government if gold bonds
bearing 3 percent interest were authorized to be substituted for those
mentioned in the contract.

The Congress having declined to grant the necessary authority to secure
this saving, the contract, unmodified, was carried out, resulting in a
gold reserve amounting to $107,571,230 on the 8th day of July, 1895.
The performance of this contract not only restored the reserve, but
checked for a time the withdrawals of gold and brought on a period of
restored confidence and such peace and quiet in business circles as
were of the greatest possible value to every interest that affects our
people. I have never had the slightest misgiving concerning the wisdom
or propriety of this arrangement, and am quite willing to answer for my
full share of responsibility for its promotion. I believe it averted a
disaster the imminence of which was, fortunately, not at the time
generally understood by our people.

Though the contract mentioned stayed for a time the tide of gold
withdrawal, its good results could not be permanent. Recent withdrawals
have reduced the reserve from $107,571,230 on the 8th day of July,
1895, to $79,333,966. How long it will remain large enough to render
its increase unnecessary is only matter of conjecture, though quite
large withdrawals for shipment in the immediate future are predicted in
well-informed quarters. About $16,000,000 has been withdrawn during the
month of November.

The foregoing statement of events and conditions develops the fact that
after increasing our interest-bearing bonded indebtedness more than
$162,000,000 to save our gold reserve we are nearly where we started,
having now in such reserve $79,333,966, as against $65,438,377 in
February, 1894, when the first bonds were issued.

Though the amount of gold drawn from the Treasury appears to be very
large as gathered from the facts and figures herein presented, it
actually was much larger, considerable sums having been acquired by the
Treasury within the several periods stated without the issue of bonds.
On the 28th of January, 1895, it was reported by the Secretary of the
Treasury that more than $172,000,000 of gold had been withdrawn for
hoarding or shipment during the year preceding. He now reports that
from January 1, 1879, to July 14, 1890, a period of more than eleven
years, only a little over $28,000,000 was withdrawn, and that between
July 14, 1890, the date of the passage of the law for an increased
purchase of silver, and the 1st day of December, 1895, or within less
than five and a half years, there was withdrawn nearly $375,000,000,
making a total of more than $403,000,000 drawn from the Treasury in
gold since January 1, 1879, the date fixed in 1875 for the retirement
of the United States notes.

Nearly $327,000,000 of the gold thus withdrawn has been paid out on
these United States notes, and yet every one of the $346,000,000 is
still uncanceled and ready to do service in future gold depletions.

More than $76,000,000 in gold has since their creation in 1890 been
paid out from the Treasury upon the notes given on the purchase of
silver by the Government, and yet the whole, amounting to $155,000,000,
except a little more than $16,000,000 which has been retired by
exchanges for silver at the request of the holders, remains outstanding
and prepared to join their older and more experienced allies in future
raids upon the Treasury's gold reserve.

In other words, the Government has paid in gold more than nine-tenths
of its United States notes and still owes them all. It has paid in gold
about one-half of its notes given for silver purchases without
extinguishing by such payment one dollar of these notes.

When, added to all this, we are reminded that to carry on this astound,
lug financial scheme the Government has incurred a bonded indebtedness
of $95,500,000 in establishing a gold reserve and of $162,315,400 in
efforts to maintain it; that the annual interest charge on such bonded
indebtedness is more than $11,000,000; that a continuance of our
present course may result in further bond issues, and that we have
suffered or are threatened with all this for the sake of supplying gold
for foreign shipment or facilitating its hoarding at home, a situation
is exhibited which certainly ought to arrest attention and provoke
immediate legislative relief.

I am convinced the only thorough and practicable remedy for our
troubles is found in the retirement and cancellation of our United
States notes, commonly called greenbacks, and the outstanding Treasury
notes issued by the Government in payment of silver purchases under the
act of 1890.

I believe this could be quite readily accomplished by the exchange of
these notes for United States bonds, of small as well as large
denominations, bearing a low rate of interest. They should be long-term
bonds, thus increasing their desirability as investments, and because
their payment could be well postponed to a period far removed from
present financial burdens and perplexities, when with increased
prosperity and resources they would be more easily met.

To further insure the cancellation of these notes and also provide a
way by which gold may be added to our currency in lieu of them, a
feature in the plan should be an authority given to the Secretary of
the Treasury to dispose of the bonds abroad for gold if necessary to
complete the contemplated redemption and cancellation, permitting him
to use the proceeds of such bonds to take up and cancel any of the
notes that may be in the Treasury or that may be received by the
Government on any account.

The increase of our bonded debt involved in this plan would be amply
compensated by renewed activity and enterprise in all business circles,
the restored confidence at home, the reinstated faith in our monetary
strength abroad, and the stimulation of every interest and industry
that would follow the cancellation of the gold-demand obligations now
afflicting us. In any event, the bonds proposed would stand for the
extinguishment of a troublesome indebtedness, while in the path we now
follow there lurks the menace of unending bonds, with our indebtedness
still undischarged and aggravated in every feature. The obligations
necessary to fund this indebtedness would not equal in amount those
from which we have been relieved since 1884 by anticipation and payment
beyond the requirements of the sinking fund out of our surplus revenues.

The currency withdrawn by the retirement of the United States notes and
Treasury notes, amounting to probably less than $486,000,000, might be
supplied by such gold as would be used on their retirement or by an
increase in the circulation of our national banks. Though the aggregate
capital of those now in existence amounts to more than $664,000,000,
their outstanding circulation based on bond security amounts to only
about $190,000,000. They are authorized to issue notes amounting to 90
percent of the bonds deposited to secure their circulation, but in no
event beyond the amount of their capital stock, and they are obliged to
pay 1 percent tax on the circulation they issue.

I think they should be allowed to issue circulation equal to the par
value of the bonds they deposit to secure it, and that the tax on their
circulation should be reduced to one-fourth of 1 percent, which would
undoubtedly meet all the expense the Government incurs on their
account. In addition they should be allowed to substitute or deposit in
lieu of the bonds now required as security for their circulation those
which would be issued for the purpose of retiring the United States
notes and Treasury notes.

The banks already existing, if they desired to avail themselves of the
provisions of law thus modified, could issue circulation, in addition
to that already outstanding, amounting to $478,000,000, which would
nearly or quite equal the currency proposed to be canceled. At any
rate, I should confidently expect to see the existing national banks or
others to be organized avail themselves of the proposed encouragements
to issue circulation and promptly fill any vacuum and supply every
currency need.

It has always seemed to me that the provisions of law regarding the
capital of national banks, which operate as a limitation to their
location, fail to make proper compensation for the suppression of State
banks, which came near to the people in all sections of the country and
readily furnished them with banking accommodations and facilities. Any
inconvenience or embarrassment arising from these restrictions on the
location of national banks might well be remedied by better adapting
the present system to the creation of banks in smaller communities or
by permitting banks of large capital to establish branches in such
localities as would serve the people, so regulated and restrained as to
secure their safe and conservative control and management.

But there might not be the necessity for such an addition to the
currency by new issues of bank circulation as at first glance is
indicated. If we should be relieved from maintaining a gold reserve
under conditions that constitute it the barometer of our solvency, and
if our Treasury should no longer be the foolish purveyor of gold for
nations abroad or for speculation and hoarding by our citizens at home,
I should expect to see gold resume its natural and normal functions in
the business affairs of the country and cease to be an object
attracting the timid watch of our people and exciting their sensitive
imaginations.

I do not overlook the fact that the cancellation of the Treasury notes
issued under the silver-purchasing act of 1890 would leave the Treasury
in the actual ownership of sufficient silver, including seigniorage, to
coin nearly $178,000,000 in standard dollars. It is worthy of
consideration whether this might not from time to time be converted
into dollars or fractional coin and slowly put into circulation, as in
the judgment of the Secretary of the Treasury the necessities of the
country should require.

Whatever is attempted should be entered upon fully appreciating the
fact that by careless, easy descent we have reached a dangerous depth,
and that our ascent will not be accomplished without laborious toil and
struggle. We shall be wise if we realize that we are financially ill
and that our restoration to health may require heroic treatment and
unpleasant remedies.

In the present stage of our difficulty it is not easy to understand how
the amount of our revenue receipts directly affects it. The important
question is not the quantity of money received in revenue payments, but
the kind of money we maintain and our ability to continue in sound
financial condition. We are considering the Government's holdings of
gold as related to the soundness of our money and as affecting our
national credit and monetary strength.

If our gold reserve had never been impaired; if no bonds had ever been
issued to replenish it; if there had been no fear and timidity
concerning our ability to continue gold payments; if any part of our
revenues were now paid in gold, and if we could look to our gold
receipts as a means of maintaining a safe reserve, the amount of our
revenues would be an influential factor in the problem. But,
unfortunately, all the circumstances that might lend weight to this
consideration are entirely lacking.

In our present predicament no gold is received by the Government in
payment of revenue charges, nor would there be if the revenues were
increased. The receipts of the Treasury, when not in silver
certificates, consist of United States notes and Treasury notes issued
for silver purchases. These forms of money are only useful to the
Government in paying its current ordinary expenses, and its quantity in
Government possession does not in the least contribute toward giving us
that kind of safe financial standing or condition which is built on
gold alone.

If it is said that these notes if held by the Government can be used to
obtain gold for our reserve, the answer is easy. The people draw gold
from the Treasury on demand upon United States notes and Treasury
notes, but the proposition that the Treasury can on demand draw gold
from the people upon them would be regarded in these days with wonder
and amusement; and even if this could be done there is nothing to
prevent those thus parting with their gold from regaining it the next
day or the next hour by the presentation of the notes they received in
exchange for it.

The Secretary of the Treasury might use such notes taken from a surplus
revenue to buy gold in the market. Of course he could not do this
without paying a premium. Private holders of gold, unlike the
Government, having no parity to maintain, would not be restrained from
making the best bargain possible when they furnished gold to the
Treasury; but the moment the Secretary of the Treasury bought gold on
any terms above par he would establish a general and universal premium
upon it, thus breaking down the parity between gold and silver, which
the Government is pledged to maintain, and opening the way to new and
serious complications. In the meantime the premium would not remain
stationary, and the absurd spectacle might be presented of a dealer
selling gold to the Government and with United States notes or Treasury
notes in his hand immediately clamoring for its return and a resale at
a higher premium.

It may be claimed that a large revenue and redundant receipts might
favorably affect the situation under discussion by affording an
opportunity of retaining these notes in the Treasury when received, and
thus preventing their presentation for gold. Such retention to be
useful ought to be at least measurably permanent; and this is precisely
what is prohibited, so far as United States notes are concerned, by the
law of 1878, forbidding their further retirement. That statute in so
many words provides that these notes when received into the Treasury
and belonging to the United States shall be "paid out again and kept in
circulation."

It will, moreover, be readily seen that the Government could not refuse
to pay out United States notes and Treasury notes in current
transactions when demanded, and insist on paying out silver alone, and
still maintain the parity between that metal and the currency
representing gold. Besides, the accumulation in the Treasury of
currency of any kind exacted from the people through taxation is justly
regarded as an evil, and it cannot proceed far without vigorous
protest against an unjustifiable retention of money from the business
of the country and a denunciation of a scheme of taxation which proves
itself to be unjust when it takes from the earnings and income of the
citizen money so much in excess of the needs of Government support that
large sums can be gathered and kept in the Treasury. Such a condition
has heretofore in times of surplus revenue led the Government to
restore currency to the people by the purchase of its unmatured bonds
at a large premium and by a large increase of its deposits in national
banks, and we easily remember that the abuse of Treasury accumulation
has furnished a most persuasive argument in favor of legislation
radically reducing our tariff taxation.

Perhaps it is supposed that sufficient revenue receipts would in a
sentimental way improve the situation by inspiring confidence in our
solvency and allaying the fear of pecuniary exhaustion. And yet through
all our struggles to maintain our gold reserve there never has been any
apprehension as to our ready ability to pay our way with such money as
we had, and the question whether or not our current receipts met our
current expenses has not entered into the estimate of our solvency. Of
course the general state of our funds, exclusive of gold, was entirely
immaterial to the foreign creditor and investor. His debt could only be
paid in gold, and his only concern was our ability to keep on hand that
kind of money.

On July 1, 1892, more than a year and a half before the first bonds
were issued to replenish the gold reserve, there was a net balance in
the Treasury, exclusive of such reserve, of less than $13,000,000, but
the gold reserve amounted to more than $114,000,000, which was the
quieting feature of the situation. It was when the stock of gold began
rapidly to fall that fright supervened and our securities held abroad
were returned for sale and debts owed abroad were pressed for payment.
In the meantime extensive shipments of gold and other unfavorable
indications caused restlessness and fright among our people at home.
Thereupon the general state of our funds, exclusive of gold, became
also immaterial to them, and they too drew gold from the Treasury for
hoarding against all contingencies. This is plainly shown by the large
increase in the proportion of gold withdrawn which was retained by our
own people as time and threatening incidents progressed. During the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1894, nearly $85,000,000 in gold was
withdrawn from the Treasury and about $77,000,000 was sent abroad,
while during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1895, over $117,000,000
was drawn out, of which only about $66,000,000 was shipped, leaving the
large balance of such withdrawals to be accounted for by domestic
hoarding.

Inasmuch as the withdrawal of our gold has resulted largely from
fright, there is nothing apparent that will prevent its continuance or
recurrence, with its natural consequences, except such a change in our
financial methods as will reassure the frightened and make the desire
for gold less intense. It is not clear how an increase fix revenue,
unless it be in gold, can satisfy those whose only anxiety is to gain
gold from the Government's store.

It cannot, therefore, be safe to rely upon increased revenues as a
cure for our present troubles.

It is possible that the suggestion of increased revenue as a remedy for
the difficulties we are considering may have originated in an
intimation or distinct allegation that the bonds which have been issued
ostensibly to replenish our gold reserve were really issued to supply
insufficient revenue. Nothing can be further from the truth. Bonds were
issued to obtain gold for the maintenance of our national credit. As
has been shown, the gold thus obtained has been drawn again from the
Treasury upon United States notes and Treasury notes. This operation
would have been promptly prevented if possible; but these notes having
thus been passed to the Treasury, they became the money of the
Government, like any other ordinary Government funds, and there was
nothing to do but to use them in paying Government expenses when needed.

At no time when bonds have been issued has there been any consideration
of the question of paying the expenses of Government with their
proceeds. There was no necessity to consider that question. At the time
of each bond issue we had a safe surplus in the Treasury for ordinary
operations, exclusive of the gold in our reserve. In February, 1894,
when the first issue of bonds was made, such surplus amounted to over
$18,000,000; in November, when the second issue was made, it amounted
to more than $42,000,000, and in February, 1895, when bonds for the
third time were issued, such surplus amounted to more than
$100,000,000. It now amounts to $98,072,420.30.

Besides all this, the Secretary of the Treasury had no authority
whatever to issue bonds to increase the ordinary revenues or pay
current expenses.

I cannot but think there has been some confusion of ideas regarding
the effects of the issue of bonds and the results of the withdrawal of
gold. It was the latter process, and not the former, that, by
substituting in the Treasury United States notes and Treasury notes for
gold, increased by their amount the money which was in the first
instance subject to ordinary Government expenditure.

Although the law compelling an increased purchase of silver by the
Government was passed on the 14th day of July, 1890, withdrawals of
gold from the Treasury upon the notes given in payment on such
purchases did not begin until October, 1891. Immediately following that
date the withdrawals upon both these notes and United States notes
increased very largely, and have continued to such an extent that since
the passage of that law there has been more than thirteen times as much
gold taken out of the Treasury upon United States notes and Treasury
notes issued for silver purchases as was thus withdrawn during the
eleven and a half years immediately prior thereto and after the 1st day
of January, 1879, when specie payments were resumed.

It is neither unfair nor unjust to charge a large share of our present
financial perplexities and dangers to the operation of the laws of 1878
and 1890 compelling the purchase of silver by the Government, which not
only furnished a new Treasury obligation upon which its gold could be
withdrawn, but so increased the fear of an overwhelming flood of silver
and a forced descent to silver payments that even the repeal of these
laws did not entirely cure the evils of their existence.

While I have endeavored to make a plain statement of the disordered
condition of our currency and the present dangers menacing our
prosperity and to suggest a way which leads to a safer financial
system, I have constantly had in mind the fact that many of my
countrymen, whose sincerity I do not doubt, insist that the cure for
the ills now threatening us may be found in the single and simple
remedy of the free coinage of silver. They contend that our mints shall
be at once thrown open to the free, unlimited, and independent coinage
of both gold and silver dollars of full legal-tender quality,
regardless of the action of any other government and in full view of
the fact that the ratio between the metals which they suggest calls for
100 cents' worth of gold in the gold dollar at the present standard and
only 50 cents in intrinsic worth of silver in the silver dollar.

Were there infinitely stronger reasons than can be adduced for hoping
that such action would secure for us a bimetallic currency moving on
lines of parity, an experiment so novel and hazardous as that proposed
might well stagger those who believe that stability is an imperative
condition of sound money.

No government, no human contrivance or act of legislation, has ever
been able to hold the two metals together in free coinage at a ratio
appreciably different from that which is established in the markets of
the world.

Those who believe that our independent free coinage of silver at an
artificial ratio with gold of 16 to 1 would restore the parity between
the metals, and consequently between the coins, oppose an unsupported
and improbable theory to the general belief and practice of other
nations; and to the teaching of the wisest statesmen and economists of
the world, both in the past and present, and, what is far more
conclusive, they run counter to our own actual experiences.

Twice in our earlier history our lawmakers, in attempting to establish
a bimetallic currency, undertook free coinage upon a ratio which
accidentally varied from the actual relative values of the two metals
not more than 3 percent. In both cases, notwithstanding greater
difficulties and cost of transportation than now exist, the coins whose
intrinsic worth was undervalued. in the ratio gradually and surely
disappeared from our circulation and went to other countries where
their real value was better recognized.

Acts of Congress were impotent to create equality where natural causes
decreed even a slight inequality.

Twice in our recent history we have signally failed to raise by
legislation the value of silver. Under an act of Congress passed in
1878 the Government was required for more than twelve years to expend
annually at least $24,000,000 in the purchase of silver bullion for
coinage. The act of July 14, 1890, in a still bolder effort, increased
the amount of silver the Government was compelled to purchase and
forced it to become the buyer annually of 54,000,000 ounces, or
practically the entire product of our mines. Under both laws silver
rapidly and steadily declined in value. The prophecy and the expressed
hope and expectation of those in the Congress who led in the passage of
the last-mentioned act that it would reestablish and maintain the
former parity between the two metals are still fresh in our memory.

In the light of these experiences, which accord with the experiences of
other nations, there is certainly no secure ground for the belief that
an act of Congress could now bridge an inequality of 50 percent
between gold and silver at our present ratio, nor is there the least
possibility that our country, which has less than one-seventh of the
silver money in the world, could by its action alone raise not only our
own but all silver to its lost ratio with gold. Our attempt to
accomplish this by the free coinage of silver at a ratio differing
widely from actual relative values would be the signal for the complete
departure of gold from our circulation, the immediate and large
contraction of our circulating medium, and a shrinkage in the real
value and monetary efficiency of all other forms of currency as they
settled to the level of silver monometallism. Everyone who receives a
fixed salary and every worker for wages would find the dollar in his
hand ruthlessly scaled down to the point of bitter disappointment, if
not to pinching privation.

A change in our standard to silver monometallism would also bring on a
collapse of the entire system of credit, which, when based on a
standard which is recognized and adopted by the world of business, is
many times more potent and useful than the entire volume of currency
and is safely capable of almost indefinite expansion to meet the growth
of trade and enterprise. In a self-invited struggle through darkness
and uncertainty our humiliation would be increased by the consciousness
that we had parted company with all the enlightened and progressive
nations of the world and were desperately and hopelessly striving to
meet the stress of modern commerce and competition with a debased and
unsuitable currency and in association with the few weak and laggard
nations which have silver alone as their standard of value.

All history warns us against rash experiments which threaten violent
changes in our monetary standard and the degradation of our currency.
The past is full of lessons teaching not only the economic dangers but
the national immorality that follow in the train of such experiments. I
will not believe that the American people can be persuaded after sober
deliberation to jeopardize their nation's prestige and proud standing
by encouraging financial nostrums, nor that they will yield to the
false allurements of cheap money when they realize that it must result
in the weakening of that financial integrity and rectitude which thus
far in our history has been so devotedly cherished as one of the traits
of true Americanism.

Our country's indebtedness, whether owing by the Government or existing
between individuals, has been contracted with reference to our present
standard. To decree by act of Congress that these debts shall be
payable in less valuable dollars than those within the contemplation
and intention of the parties when contracted would operate to transfer
by the fiat of law and without compensation an amount of property and a
volume of rights and interests almost incalculable.

Those who advocate a blind and headlong plunge to free coinage in the
name of bimetallism, and professing the belief, contrary to all
experience, that we could thus establish a double standard and a
concurrent circulation of both metals in our coinage, are certainly
reckoning from a cloudy standpoint. Our present standard of value is
the standard of the civilized world and permits the only bimetallism
now possible, or at least that is within the independent reach of any
single nation, however powerful that nation may be. While the value of
gold as a standard is steadied by almost universal commercial and
business use, it does not despise silver nor seek its banishment.
Wherever this standard is maintained there is at its side in free and
unquestioned circulation a volume of silver currency sometimes equaling
and sometimes even exceeding it in amount both maintained at a parity
notwithstanding a depreciation or fluctuation in the intrinsic value of
silver.

There is a vast difference between a standard of value and a currency
for monetary use. The standard must necessarily be fixed and certain.
The currency may be in divers forms and of various kinds. No
silver-standard country has a gold currency in circulation, but an
enlightened and wise system of finance secures the benefits of both
gold and silver as currency and circulating medium by keeping the
standard stable and all other currency at par with it. Such a system
and such a standard also give free scope for the use and expansion of
safe and conservative credit, so indispensable to broad and growing
commercial transactions and so well substituted for the actual use of
money. If a fixed and stable standard is maintained, such as the
magnitude and safety of our commercial transactions and business
require, the use of money itself is conveniently minimized.

Every dollar of fixed and stable value has through the agency of
confident credit an astonishing capacity of multiplying itself in
financial work. Every unstable and fluctuating dollar fails as a basis
of credit, and in its use begets gambling speculation and undermines
the foundations of honest enterprise.

I have ventured to express myself on this subject with earnestness and
plainness of speech because I cannot rid myself of the belief that
there lurk in the proposition for the free coinage of silver, so
strongly approved and so enthusiastically advocated by a multitude of
my countrymen, a serious menace to our prosperity and an insidious
temptation of our people to wander from the allegiance they owe to
public and private integrity. It is because I do not distrust the good
faith and sincerity of those who press this scheme that I have
imperfectly but with zeal submitted my thoughts upon this momentous
subject. I cannot refrain from begging them to reexamine their views
and beliefs in the light of patriotic reason and familiar experience
and to weigh again and again the consequences of such legislation as
their efforts have invited. Even the continued agitation of the subject
adds greatly to the difficulties of a dangerous financial situation
already forced upon us.

In conclusion I especially entreat the people's representatives in the
Congress, who are charged with the responsibility of inaugurating
measures for the safety and prosperity of our common country, to
promptly and effectively consider the ills of our critical financial
plight. I have suggested a remedy which my judgment approves. I desire,
however, to assure the Congress that I am prepared to cooperate with
them in perfecting any other measure promising thorough and practical
relief, and that I will gladly labor with them in every patriotic
endeavor to further the interests and guard the welfare of our
countrymen, whom in our respective places of duty we have undertaken to
serve.
